Source URL: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/EN/Keepit-IDC-2026-MarketScape-Excerpt.pdf
Content type: PDF document
Title: IDC MarketScape: Worldwide SaaS Data Protection 2025–2026 Vendor Assessment
Pages: 9
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

December 2025, IDC #US52971725e 
IDC MarketScape 
IDC MarketScape: Worldwide SaaS Data Protection  
2025–2026 Vendor Assessment 
Johnny Yu 
Phil Goodwin 
THIS EXCERPT FEATURES KEEPIT AS A LEADER 
IDC MARKETSCAPE FIGURE 
  
FIGURE 1 
IDC MarketScape Worldwide SaaS Data Protection Vendor Assessment 
 
Source: IDC, 2025

©2025 IDC 
#US52971725e 
2 
 
See the Appendix for detailed methodology, market definition, and scoring criteria.  
ABOUT THIS EXCERPT 
The content for this excerpt was taken directly from IDC MarketScape: Worldwide SaaS 
Data Protection 2025–2026 Vendor Assessment (Doc # US52971725).  
IDC OPINION 
SaaS data protection remains one of the biggest challenges in the data protection 
market for vendors and buyers alike. 
Data protection vendors have long been able to provide backup and recovery for any 
application, running in any environment, on any storage. However, this breadth of 
coverage does not extend to every SaaS application. SaaS data protection is a 
subsection of the larger data protection market, and very few vendors are focused 
solely on providing data protection for SaaS applications. They must balance 
developing data protection capabilities with supporting the SaaS applications their 
customers demand. 
As a result, IT buyers face a market that can be described as top heavy. They can find 
many third-party products that can protect the most popular SaaS applications, but far 
fewer options for niche SaaS applications that aren't widely adopted or are industry 
specific. Buyers are put in the uncomfortable position of balancing using multiple SaaS 
data protection vendors, using the native data protection tools from the SaaS vendors 
themselves, internally developing their own method and workflow for exporting SaaS 
data for protection, or a combination of these to cover all their SaaS applications. 
It is, therefore, unlikely that a single, perfect SaaS data protection solution that will 
address every IT buyer's needs exists. However, by knowing what solutions are in the 
market and what criteria to consider, buyers can narrow the search for the best SaaS 
data protection solution for them. The purpose of this evaluation is to offer guidance to 
that end. 
This IDC MarketScape evaluates what we believe are the six most prominent SaaS data 
protection vendors. It is designed to help readers differentiate between these vendors' 
solutions and align their capabilities and features with their own organizational needs. 
IDC MARKETSCAPE VENDOR INCLUSION CRITERIA 
To narrow the list of participants to those we believe are most significant, we applied 
the following inclusion criteria:

©2025 IDC 
#US52971725e 
3 
▪ The vendor offers a purpose-built solution for at least five SaaS applications.  
▪ The vendor's solution will be considered in totality of "own IP" and "other IP" (i.e., 
partnerships), provided that at least 80% of the vendor's core solution is 
primarily "own IP."  
▪ The vendor's solution must be available as standalone products (options for 
inclusion as a bundle are acceptable). 
▪ The solution must be available in at least two of the three major geographies 
(NA, EMEA, APJ). 
▪ The core solution must have been in general market availability on January 1, 
2024, with all features under consideration in general availability as of May 31, 
2025. Features released after that time are considered road map items. 
Our goal was to facilitate a head-to-head assessment with enough latitude that each 
vendor can illustrate its unique value and not box vendors into a one-size-fits-all 
evaluation. 
ADVICE FOR TECHNOLOGY BUYERS 
IDC research found that for SaaS application data protection, most organizations use 
native tools from SaaS vendors. These tools often have limitations or require an 
additional license to unlock premium data protection capabilities. 
The vendors in this analysis can, at the bare minimum, provide greater value than what 
SaaS application vendors can natively supply, simply because they can protect multiple 
SaaS applications on a single platform. They often go beyond data backup and recovery 
and can provide long-term data retention, immutable data storage, ransomware 
protection, security, and other capabilities. 
SaaS data protection vendors differentiate themselves in several ways. Very often, 
these involve trade-offs. Some key considerations are: 
▪ Breadth of SaaS application coverage: Many organizations use multiple SaaS 
applications. Since most data protection vendors cover the most popular 
business applications, buyers may value vendors that support more niche SaaS 
applications they are using. 
▪ Depth of solution: Some vendors focus on specific capabilities to expand SaaS 
data protection beyond just backup and recovery. These often include 
compliance, cyber-resilience, and other capabilities. Buyers will need to consider 
what they need and balance that with the solution's breadth of SaaS application 
coverage.

©2025 IDC 
#US52971725e 
4 
▪ Data sovereignty: To remain compliant, buyers should pay attention to the data 
residency options that the SaaS data protection solution provides. Buyers should 
consider whether the solution is hosted in a public cloud, the vendor's private 
datacenters, or if there are options for customers to host the backup data in 
their own datacenters, especially if there are cross-region or cross-cloud failover 
capabilities involved. 
▪ Price: While price was not an evaluation criterion in this IDC MarketScape, it 
certainly is an issue for every buyer. Solutions mentioned in this document will 
vary by price, and it is up to buyers to find the balance between cost and solution 
capabilities. 
▪ SaaS application coverage road map: Many of the vendors in this evaluation 
publicly disclose the specific SaaS applications they intend to support as road 
map items, which can be helpful in choosing a solution. However, buyers should 
also consider vendors' expansion strategies because they may affect how long it 
will take for road map items to become generally available. 
This IDC MarketScape is best used as a way to identify solution differentiation and 
formulate a short list of vendor candidates for further consideration. 
We believe every vendor in this evaluation could be the perfect solution in some 
scenarios and less optimal in other scenarios. IT buyers are advised to use this 
document to narrow the field and then apply their own due diligence and proof-of-
concept prior to making any selection or purchase. 
VENDOR SUMMARY PROFILE 
This section briefly explains IDC's key observations resulting in a vendor's position in 
the IDC MarketScape. While every vendor is evaluated against each of the criteria 
outlined in the Appendix, the description here provides a summary of each vendor's 
strengths and challenges. 
Keepit 
IDC has identified Keepit as a Leader in this 2025–2026 IDC MarketScape for worldwide 
SaaS data protection vendor assessment. 
Keepit, headquartered in Denmark and founded in 2007, is a pure-play provider 
focused exclusively on backup and recovery for SaaS applications. Keepit delivers SaaS 
data protection through a vendor-neutral, API-driven platform with independent cloud 
infrastructure as its back end instead of a public cloud. The solution provides unified 
backup and recovery across all supported SaaS applications, which include Microsoft

©2025 IDC 
#US52971725e 
5 
365, Salesforce, Google Workspace, Microsoft Dynamics 365, Azure DevOps, Power 
Platform, and others. 
Data sovereignty is one of Keepit's core value propositions. All customer backup data is 
stored in independent, Keepit-owned datacenters located in multiple global regions, 
ensuring retention, residency, and compliance. The private cloud infrastructure also 
allows Keepit to offer unlimited data retention, predictable seat-based pricing, and no 
volume-based or egress fees. 
Key solution capabilities include cross-user and in-place restore, point-in-time 
snapshots, fast indexing with smart search and preview, a unified multi-SaaS 
management dashboard, anomaly detection, logical air-gapping, and multitenant 
management capabilities and white-labeling options specifically designed for MSPs. The 
platform also features proprietary object storage using blockchain-like (Merkle tree) 
immutability. 
Strengths 
▪ Vendor-independent cloud infrastructure: Keepit stores its customers' backup 
data in its own datacenters, which are located in Denmark, Switzerland, 
Germany, the United Kingdom, the United States, Canada, and Australia. This 
ensures sovereign data control without relying on public cloud providers. 
▪ Blockchain-like immutability: All Keepit backups are stored in proprietary 
object storage using blockchain-like (Merkle tree) immutability. Once written, 
data cannot be overwritten, deleted, or modified until outside the customer's 
retention policy. 
▪ Direct data access: Backup data is stored outside the SaaS environment and 
can be accessed during SaaS outages for business continuity and data survival. 
Since it's stored on Keepit's cloud, there is no chance that data availability is 
impacted by public cloud outages. 
▪ Rapid onboarding for new SaaS applications: Keepit uses a proprietary 
Domain-Specific Language for rapid integration of new SaaS applications and has 
recently expanded coverage into Jira, Okta, Confluence, Docusign, and Miro. It 
will support GitHub and Monday.com in the near future. 
Challenges 
▪ SaaS data protection only: Keepit doesn't cover on-premises, VM, or container 
workloads, limiting its appeal to customers seeking all-in-one solutions. In 
addition, as a specialized vendor, it will face challenges competing against large 
enterprise backup vendors expanding into SaaS data protection. 
▪ Limited customer-premises/offline backup option: All backups remain in 
Keepit's dedicated cloud, which can be a dealbreaker for customers that are

©2025 IDC 
#US52971725e 
6 
mandated to keep backup copies in their own datacenters. Keepit allows 
scheduled export via physical media in special agreements to help address this. 
Consider Keepit When 
Keepit is a suitable choice for businesses that want a focused SaaS data protection 
vendor rather than a generalist backup provider encompassing multiple traditional IT 
workloads. Buyers for whom regulatory compliance and data sovereignty are top 
priorities or otherwise require backups to be on infrastructure outside major public 
clouds will also find Keepit appealing. 
APPENDIX 
Reading an IDC MarketScape Graph 
For the purposes of this analysis, IDC divided potential key measures for success into 
two primary categories: capabilities and strategies.  
Positioning on the y-axis reflects the vendor's current capabilities and menu of services, 
and how well aligned the vendor is to customer needs. The capabilities category 
focuses on the capabilities of the company and product today, here and now. Under 
this category, IDC analysts will look at how well a vendor is building/delivering 
capabilities that enable it to execute its chosen strategy in the market. 
Positioning on the x-axis, or strategies axis, indicates how well the vendor's future 
strategy aligns with what customers will require in three to five years. The strategies 
category focuses on high-level decisions and underlying assumptions about offerings, 
customer segments, and business and go-to-market plans for the next three to five 
years. 
The size of the individual vendor markers in the IDC MarketScape represents the 
annual SaaS data protection revenue of each individual vendor being assessed. It 
doesn't represent any other data protection revenue.  
For this 2025–2026 IDC MarketScape for worldwide SaaS data protection, capabilities 
were weighed more heavily than strategies to emphasize current market needs and the 
vendors currently addressing them. 
IDC MarketScape Methodology 
IDC MarketScape criteria selection, weightings, and vendor scores represent well-
researched IDC judgment about the market and specific vendors. IDC analysts tailor the 
range of standard characteristics by which vendors are measured through structured 
discussions, surveys, and interviews with market leaders, participants, and end users.

©2025 IDC 
#US52971725e 
7 
Market weightings are based on user interviews, buyer surveys, and the input of IDC 
experts in each market. IDC analysts base individual vendor scores, and ultimately 
vendor positions on the IDC MarketScape, on detailed surveys and interviews with the 
vendors, publicly available information, and end-user experiences in an effort to 
provide an accurate and consistent assessment of each vendor's characteristics, 
behavior, and capability. 
Market Definition 
While it is not itself a separate market, SaaS data protection capabilities are a subset of 
data protection software. Our definitions of pertinent market components follow: 
▪ Data protection software: Data protection software is focused on the 
protection, restoration, and recovery of data in the event of physical or logical 
errors. Products within the data protection and recovery market include data 
protection, continuous data protection (CDP), bare metal restore, 
backup/recovery software, host-based replication, and array-based replication 
(inclusive of snapshots, mirror/clones, and remote replication). Data protection 
software includes revenue from licensed software and online data protection 
services (aka online backup) licensed in a subscription fashion. This is inclusive of 
file- and image-level backup software, CDP software, and backup reporting 
software. 
▪ Data protection as a service: DPaaS is an umbrella term that includes backup, 
archive, disaster recovery, and cyber-recovery as a service. These are cloud-
based services fully managed by the service provider. Most DPaaS solutions can 
address on-premises, hybrid, and multicloud workloads. 
▪ Disaster recovery and disaster recovery as a service (DRaaS): Disaster 
recovery systems include all of the infrastructure, process management, and 
services necessary to restart an entire workload either on premises or in a public 
cloud environment. DRaaS differs from on-premises and traditional disaster 
recovery in that DRaaS is a cloud-based, fully managed service. An organization 
may declare a disaster response based on datacenter fires or broken water 
pipes, power loss, and regional events such as train derailments, plane crashes, 
or terror events, as well as earthquakes, floods, tornadoes, and hurricanes. 
▪ Cyber-recovery and cyber-recovery as a service (CRaaS): Cyber-recovery 
builds upon disaster recovery, and CRaaS builds upon DRaaS. Cyber-recovery in 
both contexts includes all infrastructure, process management, 
analytics/forensics, and professional services to assist organizations in 
recovering from malware attacks in general and ransomware specifically. To 
qualify as a CRaaS service, we believe it must include all of the components of 
DRaaS (in other words, the ability to reestablish an application workload in its

©2025 IDC 
#US52971725e 
8 
entirety) plus provisioning for a sanitary sandbox, forensic analysis, and curated 
recovery. Some vendors may go substantially beyond that with additional data 
security functions for added value and differentiation. 
LEARN MORE 
Related Research 
▪ Safeguarding SaaS Application Data with Third-Party Data Protection (IDC 
#US53556925, June 2025) 
▪ Organizations Lean on Native Capabilities to Protect SaaS Application Data (IDC 
#US53152325, February 2025) 
▪ Challenges and Opportunities in SaaS Application Data Protection (IDC 
#US52785524, December 2024) 
Synopsis 
This IDC study is an evaluation of six prominent SaaS data protection vendors on a 
worldwide basis and offers details on each vendor's capabilities and offerings. This 
evaluation is intended to help IT buyers differentiate between SaaS data protection 
solutions and narrow down candidates that fit their specific needs. 
"With so many SaaS applications, it is often difficult for organizations to find a data 
protection solution that offers both the breadth of SaaS application coverage to 
support everything they use and the depth of capabilities to make it more valuable 
than what native tools can do," said Johnny Yu, research manager, Infrastructure 
Software Platform at IDC. "This IDC MarketScape is designed to help IT buyers find that 
balance of breadth and depth and narrow down their choices of SaaS data protection 
solutions to ones that best match their needs."

ABOUT IDC 
International Data Corporation (IDC) is the premier global provider of market intelligence, advisory 
services, and events for the information technology, telecommunications, and consumer technology 
markets. With more than 1,300 analysts worldwide, IDC offers global, regional, and local expertise on 
technology, IT benchmarking and sourcing, and industry opportunities and trends in over 110 countries. 
IDC's analysis and insight helps IT professionals, business executives, and the investment community to 
make fact-based technology decisions and to achieve their key business objectives. Founded in 1964, IDC 
is a wholly owned subsidiary of International Data Group (IDG, Inc.). 
Global Headquarters 
140 Kendrick Street 
Building B 
Needham, MA 02494 
USA 
508.872.8200 
Twitter: @IDC 
blogs.idc.com 
www.idc.com 
Copyright and Trademark Notice 
This IDC research document was published as part of an IDC continuous intelligence service, providing 
written research, analyst interactions, and web conference and conference event proceedings. Visit 
www.idc.com to learn more about IDC subscription and consulting services. To view a list of IDC offices 
worldwide, visit www.idc.com/about/worldwideoffices. Please contact IDC at customerservice@idc.com 
for information on additional copies, web rights, or applying the price of this document toward the 
purchase of an IDC service. 
Copyright 2025 IDC. Reproduction is forbidden unless authorized. All rights reserved.
