Source URL: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/Keepit-GDPR-Whitepaper.pdf
Content type: PDF document
Title: unknown
Pages: 8
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Keepit data protection:
GDPR compliance and readiness
Whitepaper
April 2024, Copenhagen

GDPR compliance and readiness
Data protection with Keepit:  
GDPR compliance and readiness
The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) is the EU’s data privacy and 
security gold standard, protecting the fundamental right for data protection 
of data subjects’ personal data.
With its implementation in 2016, the GDPR brought new obligations for 
organizations to be transparent about their data collection and processing 
practices, to obtain clear consent for the use of personal data, and to 
implement appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure 
the security of that data.  Additionally, the GDPR established the right for 
individuals to request access to their personal data and the right to have 
it erased. These changes have led to a heightened sense of responsibility 
among organizations for how they handle and process data and have helped 
to increase trust in the digital economy. 
Any organization in the EU processing personal data must comply with GDPR. 
Non-compliance results in significant fines as well as a damaging loss of 
reputation: As one of the most high-profile cases, Meta has been fined $1.3B 
for mishandling data, showing that there will be huge consequences for 
GDPR non-compliance. 
Given that GDPR has significant data protection and security implications, 
your SaaS data protection solution must do more than check compliance 
boxes — it should ensure that your data is safe and help you make the process 
of achieving compliance simple. As a European-born and operated vendor, 
compliance is second nature to Keepit. 
Our services are purposefully built to make compliance requirements easy to 
accommodate for customers. And our company is rigidly compliant with all 
relevant regulations in the regions we operate across the world — so much so 
that Forrester has recommended Keepit as the “best fit for companies that 
need Microsoft 365 protection and GDPR expertise.”*
Curious to find out why?
This document will explain in depth how Keepit’s backup and recovery 
solution supports and enables GDPR compliance and data protection 
through its key features.
* Forrester, New Wave™: SaaS Application Data Protection, 2021

GDPR compliance and readiness
1. Platform design
Keepit has designed its platform to provide leading security for any modern 
cloud SaaS application, which means that even if the entire infrastructure of 
the SaaS vendor is compromised, customers will still have a full copy of all 
recent data accessible. Ensuring data availability is the backbone of any data 
protection plan.
2. Security by design
At the technical level, the Keepit solution employs blockchain technology, 
cryptography, purpose-built APIs, and systems and service segregation to 
maintain the highest level of security. Keepit employs encryption when data 
is in transit using HTTPS secured with modern TLS when accessing customer 
data through primary workload vendor APIs such as Microsoft 365, Salesforce, 
Google Workspace, and others. 
As an additional physical layer of security, Keepit will typically exchange traffic 
directly with the workload providers over major internet exchanges, far from the 
prying eyes of the average Wi-Fi hotspot eavesdropper. Once data reaches 
Keepit, it is encrypted before being stored in Keepit storage systems. For this 
purpose, Keepit employs AES encryption directly on storage systems — this is 
the same encryption algorithm that is used throughout industry and government 
bodies to keep secret practically anything that needs to be kept secret. 
As yet another additional security layer, the storage media upon which customer 
data resides is kept in a physically secure data center.
3. Data center security
Each of Keepit’s geographic regions operates active-active from separate 
physical locations to protect not only against the forces of criminals seeking 
to compromise data, but also against the forces of nature. This means that 
each Keepit region employs two regional data centers, each data center being 
a complete mirror of the other. The two data centers operate in active-active 
mode, continually keeping data replicated between them. For this reason, any 
single system can fail without affecting the operation of the platform, and even 
a full site can fail without affecting the platform, as it has a separate, mirrored 
data center operating alongside it. This keeps customer data always accessible 
and available for restore, even in the unlikely event of the loss of a full data center.

GDPR compliance and readiness
4. The Keepit cloud
The Keepit cloud is fully owned and run by Keepit. Our systems, our people, our 
standards.Keepit can therefore guarantee that the backup data we are storing is 
fully isolated fromcustomer SaaS vendors cloud, no matter if that may be Azure, 
AWS, G Cloud or somethingelse. Keepit does not share infrastructure with any 
public cloud, period. We believe this to be a fundamental requirement for any 
backup solution, in line with the well-known 3-2-1 backup principle. 
Customers would not store backup data on the server they are backing up — 
so how could customer cloud backup data reside in the same cloud they are 
backing up? That would not make sense, of course. Why not? In the event that 
the SaaS provider’s cloud is down, data would be inaccessible. With Keepit, 
data will still be accessible in this case since it is backed up on Keepit’s private 
cloud. An independent, third-party cloud for always-on availability: that is data 
protection best practice.
5. Data sovereignty
To comply with GDPR, companies with operations in the EU are required to store 
all their customer data within the EU. To meet such customer data sovereignty 
requirements, Keepit operates separate data centers in multiple regions — 
currently America, Europe, and Asia-Pacific. Each cloud is run from data center 
locations provided by the Keepit data center partners Equinix and Cibicom. 
Each of the data center regions are completely isolated from each other. Keepit 
offers a no-transmission guarantee — a promise that data will never leave the 
selected data region.
6. Data processing agreement
The DPA is the fundamental legally binding agreement that Keepit enters into 
with each of its customers which states the rights and obligations of each party 
concerning data protection. The agreement includes a number of guarantees 
to customers that entrust Keepit with its personal data on how this data is 
processed and protected when stored with Keepit. 
Keepit is a European-born and operated company, which means we comply 
with all relevant data protection regulations in the EU and do not rely on any 
data sub-processors globally who would be able to access data. Next to these 
guarantees in the DPA, our customers are further entitled to receive annual 
third-party audit reports.
7. Data processor
According to personal data regulation, Keepit is defined as data processor, 
acting solely on instructions of the customer being the data controller. Keepit 
does not collect, nor store, data that is not specifically directed by its customers. 
Further, Keepit does nothing without the clear instruction from its customers.

GDPR compliance and readiness
8. System restore
Data protection regulations such as GDPR, but also cybersecurity regulations 
such as NIS2, generally require that businesses have the ability to restore 
availability and access to personal data in a timely manner in the event of a 
physical or technical incident. Keepit provides for this, as in case of an incident, 
data can rapidly be located, verified, and restored in-place — usually in a 
matter of minutes.
9. Deletion impossible
Keepit customers will notice that — just like a tape in a vault — it is not possible to 
alter backup datasets. Because of our unique architecture and object storage, 
data is undeletable and unchangeable. 
Users cannot re-write history. Users cannot even delete a user account 
without going through a holding period. What this means to customers is that 
a potential malicious hijacker who takes on a user identity will face similar 
restrictions as the user. In other words, customers are practically invulnerable 
to ransomware and data loss.
10. Data integrity
Keepit has been built to be completely tamperproof by being an  inherently 
immutable data store: once data is in, it cannot be changed. This means Keepit 
is immutable by design. 
The application does not expose any APIs or other means that would allow data 
overwrites. Furthermore, the blockchain-like structure used, called Merkle Tree, 
allows all layers in the platform to verify that a given requested data object is 
unaltered from its original form through unique identifiable hashes. The result is 
guaranteed data integrity.
11. Data retention
Within the Keepit solution, customers can determine the amount of time any 
given data object remains in the backup after being deleted from customer’s 
cloud solutions backed up by Keepit. In addition to the various regulatory 
frameworks that customers are already tasked with, customers may also 
have contractual and business requirements that dictate implementation of a 
customized data retention policy. 
In order to draft and implement an accurate data retention policy, customers 
need to know what kind of data the organization holds, the purpose of having 
this data, and in which systems the data resides. However, holding onto data 
longer than required by law or longer than needed for use can have various 
adverse consequences which include:
•	
Increasing risk of experiencing a data breach or security incident;
•	
Placing client data at greater risk of being breached;

GDPR compliance and readiness
•	
Contributing to cluttered hardware and/or software, making it difficult to find data 
that is actually needed; and
•	
Expanding the regulatory compliance burden related to data access.
Ultimately, in order for an organization to implement an effective data retention 
policy, data that no longer serves a purpose to the organization or data that has 
been held for the required retention period should be deleted. 
Keepit enables customers through its unique platform connector model to build 
and maintain an effective and compliant data retention plan. Thus, the customer 
can configure its own unique and individual data retention rules within the Keepit 
platform, facilitating customized data clean up.
12. Processing security
GDPR Article 32 requires data controllers and data processors to implement 
technical and organizational measures that ensure a level of data security 
appropriate for the level of risk presented by processing personal data. Keepit has 
implemented such measures, which are described in the “Keepit technical and 
organizational measures” paper. 
The purpose of these measures, which, includes data encryption, is to ensure the 
ongoing confidentiality, integrity, availability, and resiliency of your data backup  
with Keepit.
According to Article 32, you are not only required to protect your data from 
unauthorized access and outages but also from any form of modification or deletion.
In a recent decision from a European data protection authority, the authority held 
that backups being read, modified, and deleted in connection with a ransomware 
attack was a breach of Article 32 and led to the organization being heavily fined for 
not securing the availability of data. To help our customers avoid such a scenario, 
we offer true data immutability and absolute protection against deletion.
13. Right to be forgotten (RTBF)
Under GDPR Article 17, personal data must be erased without undue delay, if you 
as a data controller do not have a legal basis for keeping personal data. A common 
question that arises from this is how we comply with this article, as due to our unique 
architecture, the backup history cannot be modified and data is undeletable. 
Data protection authorities hold the position that if deletion in the backup is not 
technically possible, you cannot be required to delete data, but instead, have to 
ensure that the data is not restored from the backup to your live environment. This 
entails that if personal data needs to be restored from backups, you, as the data 
controller, will have to take the necessary steps to comply and ensure the data is 
not restored to protect the rights of the data subject.

GDPR compliance and readiness
To help our customers stay compliant, we have developed a dedicated feature. 
The RBTF label allows customers to tag those records which, in accordance with 
GDPR, are not allowed to be recovered in any way, shape or form — be it through 
restoring to the source organization or a download. Once assigned, the record 
will become inaccessible, and if it is ever part of a larger restore job, it will not 
be restored either. This makes us the only backup provider globally with a full 
implementation of the GDPR “Right to be forgotten” (RTBF) legislation of Article 
17 and Article 32.  
We recommend you, as our customers, to maintain transparency with the data 
subjects and clearly describe in your data privacy policies how you handle 
your obligations under Article 17 and Article 32 in connection with backups and 
immutability of data.
14. Keepit compliance
Keepit meets demanding regulatory requirements. As a European vendor, 
compliance is second nature to Keepit: Our services are built to make 
compliance requirements easy to accommodate for customers. And our 
company is rigidly compliant with all relevant regulations in the regions we 
operate in. Plus, Keepit employs its own dedicated DPO to assist and monitor 
internal compliance, as well as inform and advise on Data Protection obligations.
As your trusted cloud backup vendor, we’re serious about the security of 
your data. Keepit and our data centers are therefore certified by both ISO/
IEC 27001:2013 and the ISAE 3402-II (audited by Deloitte annually). Further 
information about data security in Keepit, compliance certifications of Keepit, 
as well as our data center partners can be found in the Keepit Security Guide 
available at our website.
Because of this functionality, we believe that Keepit is an essential tool in 
helping you achieve GDPR compliance and ensure solid data protection. 
With the highest security standards and by running our own infrastructure with 
data centers across the world offering a no-transmission guarantee, Keepit 
allows you to store your data in a specific region and guarantees that your data 
will never be moved outside of that region — vital for businesses that have 
regulations or concerns around data sovereignty, privacy, or data residency. 
Further, our dedicated feature set makes us the only backup provider globally 
with a full implementation of the GDPR “Right to be forgotten” (RTBF) legislation 
of Article 17 and Article 32. With our ongoing commitment to compliance, we 
ensure that organizations are well equipped to comply with today’s challenges, 
as well as future regulations and contractual demands for data protection 
involving the governance and safekeeping of personal data.
Keepit has been recognized by Forrester as a leader in SaaS application data 
protection due to its “significant experience with data privacy and compliance 
needs.” The analysts confirm that Keepit offers strong core SaaS application 
data protection support in regard to privacy regulation compliance and 
recommend it as “the best fit for companies that need Microsoft 365 protection 
and GDPR expertise.” Learn more about this in the Forrester New Wave Report.

www.keepit.com
Take the next step
toward protecting 
your Saas data
Request a demo
Keepit provides next-level SaaS data protection for key business applications, ensuring business continuity and access to data. 
Keepit is the world’s only independent backup and recovery solution and keeps data resilient to cyberattacks and human error.
Headquartered in Copenhagen with offices and data centers globally, Keepit is trusted by companies worldwide.
HQ - Copenhagen
Denmark
Keepit A/S
Per Henrik Lings Allé 4, 7.
2100 København, Denmark
CVR: 30806883
+45 8987 7792
sales@keepit.com
Dallas, Texas
United States
Keepit USA Inc.
3232 McKinney Avenue Suite 820 
Dallas TX 75204, USA
TIN: 85-358 6335
+1 469-461-4892
sales@keepit.com
London
United Kingdom
Keepit Technologies UK, LTD.
Warnford Court
29, Throgmorton Street
London EC2N 2AT, UK
Company reg. no.: 13785045
sales@keepit.com
Munich
Germany
Keepit Germany GmbH
Maximiliansplatz 22
380639 München
Amtsgericht München,
HRB 270094
Geschäftsführer Morten Felsvang
sales@keepit.com
© 2024 Keepit. All rights reserved.
