Source URL: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/Administration/Keepit%20DPA%20-%20Danish%20Data%20Protection%20Agency.pdf
Content type: PDF document
Title: unknown
Pages: 17
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Standard Contractual Clauses March 2024 
Page 1 of 17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Standard Contractual Clauses 
 
For the purposes of Article 28(3) of Regulation 2016/679 (the GDPR)  
 
between 
 
Customer Entity Name Specified in the Order Form 
(the data controller) 
 
and 
 
Keepit A/S  
Per Henrik Lings Allé 4, 7th floor, 2100 Copenhagen OE, Denmark 
(the data processor) 
 
each a ‘party’; together ‘the parties’ 
 
HAVE AGREED on the following Contractual Clauses (the Clauses) in order to meet the re-
quirements of the GDPR and to ensure the protection of the rights of the data subject.

Standard Contractual Clauses March 2024 
Page 2 of 17 
 
1. Table of Contents 
2. Preamble ............................................................................................................................. 3 
3. The rights and obligations of the data controller .................................................................. 3 
4. The data processor acts according to instructions .............................................................. 4 
5. Confidentiality ...................................................................................................................... 4 
6. Security of processing ......................................................................................................... 4 
7. Use of sub-processors ......................................................................................................... 5 
8. Transfer of data to third countries or international organisations ........................................ 6 
9. Assistance to the data controller ......................................................................................... 6 
10. Notification of personal data breach .................................................................................. 7 
11. Erasure and return of data ................................................................................................. 8 
12. Audit and inspection .......................................................................................................... 8 
13. The parties’ agreement on other terms ............................................................................. 9 
14. Commencement and termination ...................................................................................... 9 
15. Data controller and data processor contacts/contact points ............................................ 10 
Appendix A 
Information about the processing ................................................................. 10 
Appendix B 
Authorised sub-processors ........................................................................... 13 
Appendix C 
Instruction pertaining to the use of personal data ........................................ 14 
Appendix D 
The parties’ terms of agreement on other subjects ...................................... 17

Standard Contractual Clauses March 2024 
Page 3 of 17 
2. Preamble 
 
1. These Contractual Clauses (the Clauses) set out the rights and obligations of the data 
controller and the data processor, when processing personal data on behalf of the 
data controller. 
 
2. The Clauses have been designed to ensure the parties’ compliance with Article 28(3) 
of Regulation 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 
2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal 
data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (Gen-
eral Data Protection Regulation). 
 
3. In the context of the provision of the Services, the data processor will process per-
sonal data on behalf of the data controller in accordance with the Clauses. 
 
4. The Clauses shall take priority over any similar provisions contained in other agree-
ments between the parties. 
 
5. Four appendices are attached to the Clauses and form an integral part of the Clauses. 
 
6. Appendix A contains details about the processing of personal data, including the pur-
pose and nature of the processing, type of personal data, categories of data subject 
and duration of the processing. 
 
7. Appendix B contains the data controller’s conditions for the data processor’s use of 
sub-processors and a list of sub-processors authorised by the data controller. 
 
8. Appendix C contains the data controller’s instructions with regards to the processing 
of personal data, the minimum security measures to be implemented by the data pro-
cessor and how audits of the data processor and any sub-processors are to be per-
formed. 
 
9. Appendix D contains provisions for other activities which are not covered by the 
Clauses.  
 
10. The Clauses along with appendices shall be retained in writing, including electroni-
cally, by both parties. 
 
11. The Clauses shall not exempt the data processor from obligations to which the data 
processor is subject pursuant to the General Data Protection Regulation (the GDPR) 
or other legislation. 
3. The rights and obligations of the data controller 
 
1. The data controller is responsible for ensuring that the processing of personal data 
takes place in compliance with the GDPR (see Article 24 GDPR), the applicable EU 
or Member State1 data protection provisions and the Clauses. 
 
2. The data controller has the right and obligation to make decisions about the purposes 
and means of the processing of personal data. 
 
 
1 References to ”Member States” made throughout the Clauses shall be understood as references to “EEA Member States”.

Standard Contractual Clauses March 2024 
Page 4 of 17 
 
3. The data controller shall be responsible, among other, for ensuring that the processing 
of personal data, which the data processor is instructed to perform, has a legal basis.  
4. The data processor acts according to instructions 
 
1. The data processor shall process personal data only on documented instructions from 
the data controller, unless required to do so by Union or Member State law to which 
the processor is subject. Such instructions shall be specified in appendices A and C. 
Subsequent instructions can also be given by the data controller throughout the du-
ration of the processing of personal data, but such instructions shall always be docu-
mented and kept in writing, including electronically, in connection with the Clauses.  
 
2. The data processor shall immediately inform the data controller if instructions given 
by the data controller, in the opinion of the data processor, contravene the GDPR or 
the applicable EU or Member State data protection provisions. 
5. Confidentiality 
 
1. The data processor shall only grant access to the personal data being processed on 
behalf of the data controller to persons under the data processor’s authority who have 
committed themselves to confidentiality or are under an appropriate statutory obliga-
tion of confidentiality and only on a need to know basis. The list of persons to whom 
access has been granted shall be kept under periodic review. On the basis of this 
review, such access to personal data can be withdrawn, if access is no longer neces-
sary, and personal data shall consequently not be accessible anymore to those per-
sons. 
 
2. The data processor shall at the request of the data controller demonstrate that the 
concerned persons under the data processor’s authority are subject to the abovemen-
tioned confidentiality. 
6. Security of processing  
 
1. Article 32 GDPR stipulates that, taking into account the state of the art, the costs of 
implementation and the nature, scope, context and purposes of processing as well as 
the risk of varying likelihood and severity for the rights and freedoms of natural per-
sons, the data controller and data processor shall implement appropriate technical 
and organisational measures to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk. 
 
The data controller shall evaluate the risks to the rights and freedoms of natural per-
sons inherent in the processing and implement measures to mitigate those risks. De-
pending on their relevance, the measures may include the following: 
a. Pseudonymisation and encryption of personal data; 
 
b. the ability to ensure ongoing confidentiality, integrity, availability and resilience of 
processing systems and services; 
 
c. 
the ability to restore the availability and access to personal data in a timely man-
ner in the event of a physical or technical incident;

Standard Contractual Clauses March 2024 
Page 5 of 17 
d. a process for regularly testing, assessing and evaluating the effectiveness of 
technical and organisational measures for ensuring the security of the pro-
cessing. 
 
2. According to Article 32 GDPR, the data processor shall also – independently from the 
data controller – evaluate the risks to the rights and freedoms of natural persons in-
herent in the processing and implement measures to mitigate those risks. To this ef-
fect, the data controller shall provide the data processor with all information necessary 
to identify and evaluate such risks. 
 
3. Furthermore, the data processor shall assist the data controller in ensuring compli-
ance with the data controller’s obligations pursuant to Articles 32 GDPR, by inter alia 
providing the data controller with information concerning the technical and organisa-
tional measures already implemented by the data processor pursuant to Article 32 
GDPR along with all other information necessary for the data controller to comply with 
the data controller’s obligation under Article 32 GDPR. 
 
If subsequently – in the assessment of the data controller – mitigation of the identified 
risks require further measures to be implemented by the data processor, than those 
already implemented by the data processor pursuant to Article 32 GDPR, the data 
controller shall specify these additional  measures to be implemented in Appendix C. 
7. Use of sub-processors 
 
1. The data processor shall meet the requirements specified in Article 28(2) and (4) 
GDPR in order to engage another processor (a sub-processor). 
 
2. The data processor shall therefore not engage another processor (sub-processor) for 
the fulfilment of the Clauses without the prior general written authorisation of the data 
controller. 
 
3. The data processor has the data controller’s general authorisation for the engagement 
of sub-processors. The data processor shall inform in writing the data controller of any 
intended changes concerning the addition or replacement of sub-processors at least 
thirty (30) calendar days in advance, thereby giving the data controller the opportunity 
to object to such changes prior to the engagement of the concerned sub-processor(s). 
Longer time periods of prior notice for specific sub-processing services can be pro-
vided in Appendix B. The list of sub-processors already authorised by the data con-
troller can be found in Appendix B. 
 
4. Where the data processor engages a sub-processor for carrying out specific pro-
cessing activities on behalf of the data controller, the same data protection obligations 
as set out in the Clauses shall be imposed on that sub-processor by way of a contract 
or other legal act under EU or Member State law, in particular providing sufficient 
guarantees to implement appropriate technical and organisational measures in such 
a manner that the processing will meet the requirements of the Clauses and the 
GDPR. 
 
The data processor shall therefore be responsible for requiring that the sub-processor 
at least complies with the obligations to which the data processor is subject pursuant 
to the Clauses and the GDPR.

Standard Contractual Clauses March 2024 
Page 6 of 17 
5. A copy of such a sub-processor agreement and subsequent amendments shall – at 
the data controller’s request – be submitted to the data controller, thereby giving the 
data controller the opportunity to ensure that the same data protection obligations as 
set out in the Clauses are imposed on the sub-processor. Clauses on business related 
issues that do not affect the legal data protection content of the sub-processor agree-
ment, shall not require submission to the data controller.   
 
6. The processor shall agree a third-party beneficiary clause with the sub-processor 
whereby – in the event the processor has factually disappeared, ceased to exist in 
law or has become insolvent – the controller shall have the right to terminate the sub-
processor contract and to instruct the sub-processor to erase or return the personal 
data. 
 
7. If the sub-processor does not fulfil his data protection obligations, the data processor 
shall remain fully liable to the data controller as regards the fulfilment of the obligations 
of the sub-processor. This does not affect the rights of the data subjects under the 
GDPR – in particular those foreseen in Articles 79 and 82 GDPR – against the data 
controller and the data processor, including the sub-processor. 
8. Transfer of data to third countries or international organisations 
 
1. Any transfer of personal data to third countries or international organisations by the 
data processor shall only occur on the basis of documented instructions from the data 
controller and shall always take place in compliance with Chapter V GDPR.  
 
2. In case transfers to third countries or international organisations, which the data pro-
cessor has not been instructed to perform by the data controller, is required under EU 
or Member State law to which the data processor is subject, the data processor shall 
inform the data controller of that legal requirement prior to processing unless that law 
prohibits such information on important grounds of public interest. 
 
3. Without documented instructions from the data controller, the data processor there-
fore cannot within the framework of the Clauses: 
 
a. transfer personal data to a data controller or a data processor in a third coun-
try or in an international organization 
 
b. transfer the processing of personal data to a sub-processor in a third country  
 
c. 
have the personal data processed in by the data processor in a third country 
 
4. The data controller’s instructions regarding the transfer of personal data to a third 
country including, if applicable, the transfer tool under Chapter V GDPR on which they 
are based, shall be set out in Appendix C.6. 
 
5. The Clauses shall not be confused with standard data protection clauses within the 
meaning of Article 46(2)(c) and (d) GDPR, and the Clauses cannot be relied upon by 
the parties as a transfer tool under Chapter V GDPR. 
9. Assistance to the data controller 
 
1. Taking into account the nature of the processing, the data processor shall assist the 
data controller by appropriate technical and organisational measures, insofar as this

Standard Contractual Clauses March 2024 
Page 7 of 17 
is possible, in the fulfilment of the data controller’s obligations to respond to requests 
for exercising the data subject’s rights laid down in Chapter III GDPR. 
 
This entails that the data processor shall, insofar as this is possible, assist the data 
controller in the data controller’s compliance with: 
 
a. the right to be informed when collecting personal data from the data subject 
b. the right to be informed when personal data have not been obtained from the 
data subject 
c. 
the right of access by the data subject 
d. the right to rectification 
e. the right to erasure (‘the right to be forgotten’) 
f. 
the right to restriction of processing 
g. notification obligation regarding rectification or erasure of personal data or 
restriction of processing 
h. the right to data portability 
i. 
the right to object  
j. 
the right not to be subject to a decision based solely on automated pro-
cessing, including profiling 
 
2. In addition to the data processor’s obligation to assist the data controller pursuant to 
Clause 6.3., the data processor shall furthermore, taking into account the nature of 
the processing and the information available to the data processor, assist the data 
controller in ensuring compliance with: 
 
a. The data controller’s obligation to without undue delay and, where feasible, 
not later than 72 hours after having become aware of it, notify the personal 
data breach to the competent supervisory authority of the data controller, un-
less the personal data breach is unlikely to result in a risk to the rights and 
freedoms of natural persons; 
 
b. the data controller’s obligation to without undue delay communicate the per-
sonal data breach to the data subject, when the personal data breach is likely 
to result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of natural persons; 
 
c. 
the data controller’s obligation to carry out an assessment of the impact of 
the envisaged processing operations on the protection of personal data (a 
data protection impact assessment); 
 
d. the data controller’s obligation to consult the competent supervisory authority 
of the data controller, prior to processing where a data protection impact as-
sessment indicates that the processing would result in a high risk in the ab-
sence of measures taken by the data controller to mitigate the risk. 
 
3. The parties shall define in Appendix C the appropriate technical and organisational 
measures by which the data processor is required to assist the data controller as well 
as the scope and the extent of the assistance required. This applies to the obligations 
foreseen in Clause 9.1. and 9.2. 
10. Notification of personal data breach 
 
1. In case of any personal data breach, the data processor shall, without undue delay 
after having become aware of it, notify the data controller of the personal data breach.

Standard Contractual Clauses March 2024 
Page 8 of 17 
 
2. The data processor’s notification to the data controller shall, if possible, take place 
within 72 hours after the data processor has become aware of the personal data 
breach to enable the data controller to comply with the data controller’s obligation to 
notify the personal data breach to the competent supervisory authority, cf. Article 33 
GDPR. 
 
3. In accordance with Clause 9(2)(a), the data processor shall assist the data controller 
in notifying the personal data breach to the competent supervisory authority, meaning 
that the data processor is required to assist in obtaining the information listed below 
which, pursuant to Article 33(3)GDPR, shall be stated in the data controller’s notifica-
tion to the competent supervisory authority:   
 
a. The nature of the personal data breach including where possible, the cate-
gories and approximate number of data subjects concerned and the catego-
ries and approximate number of personal data records concerned;  
 
b. the likely consequences of the personal data breach; 
 
c. 
the measures taken or proposed to be taken by the controller to address the 
personal data breach, including, where appropriate, measures to mitigate its 
possible adverse effects.  
 
4. The parties shall define in Appendix C all the elements to be provided by the data 
processor when assisting the data controller in the notification of a personal data 
breach to the competent supervisory authority. 
11. Erasure and return of data 
 
1. On termination of the provision of personal data processing services, the data pro-
cessor shall be under obligation at the controller’s choice either (i) to delete all per-
sonal data processed on behalf of the data controller and certify to the data controller 
that it has done so, or (ii) to return all the personal data to the data controller and 
delete existing copies unless Union or Member State law requires storage of the per-
sonal data. 
12. Audit and inspection 
 
1. The data processor shall make available to the data controller all information neces-
sary to demonstrate compliance with the obligations laid down in Article 28 and the 
Clauses and allow for and contribute to audits, including inspections, conducted by 
the data controller or another auditor mandated by the data controller. 
 
2. Procedures applicable to the data controller’s audits, including inspections, of the data 
processor and sub-processors are specified in appendices C.7. and C.8.     
 
3. The data processor shall be required to provide the supervisory authorities, which 
pursuant to applicable legislation have access to the data controller’s and data pro-
cessor’s facilities, or representatives acting on behalf of such supervisory authorities, 
with access to the data processor’s physical facilities on presentation of appropriate 
identification.

Standard Contractual Clauses March 2024 
Page 9 of 17 
13. The parties’ agreement on other terms  
 
1. The parties may agree other clauses concerning the provision of the personal data 
processing service specifying e.g. liability, as long as they do not contradict directly 
or indirectly the Clauses or prejudice the fundamental rights or freedoms of the data 
subject and the protection afforded by the GDPR. 
14. Commencement and termination 
 
1. The Clauses shall become effective on the date of both parties’ signature of an agree-
ment for the provisioning of the Services of which these Clauses are an integral part. 
 
2. Both parties shall be entitled to require the Clauses renegotiated if changes to the law 
or inexpediency of the Clauses should give rise to such renegotiation.  
 
3. The Clauses shall apply for the duration of the provision of personal data processing 
services. For the duration of the provision of personal data processing services, the 
Clauses cannot be terminated unless other Clauses governing the provision of per-
sonal data processing services have been agreed between the parties. 
 
4. If the provision of personal data processing services is terminated, and the personal 
data is deleted or returned to the data controller pursuant to Clause 11.1. and Appen-
dix C.4., the Clauses may be terminated by written notice by either party. 
 
5. Signature 
 
On behalf of the data controller 
 
Name  
Customer Entity Name Specified in the Order Form 
Signature 
Executed either by online click-through, by signature together 
with the Terms of Service, or by separate signature. 
 
 
On behalf of the data processor 
 
Name  
Keepit A/S 
Signature 
Executed upon the Customer’s online click-through ac-
ceptance, or by signature together with the Terms of Service, 
or by separate signature.

Standard Contractual Clauses March 2024 
Page 10 of 17 
15. Data controller and data processor contacts/contact points 
 
1. The parties may contact each other using the following contacts/contact points: 
 
2. The parties shall be under obligation continuously to inform each other of changes to 
contacts/contact points. 
 
Name, Position, E-mail address of the data controller:  
Entered and kept up to date by the data controller within the Services
 
 
 
Name, Position, E-mail address of the data processor:  
Entity Name: Keepit A/S 
Address: Per Henrik Lings Allé 4, 7th floor, 2100 Copenhagen OE, Denmark 
Att.: Data Protection Officer 
E-mail address: dpo@keepit.com

Standard Contractual Clauses March 2024 
Page 11 of 17 
Appendix A Information about the processing  
As part of Keepit's provision of Services to the Customer, Keepit will be processing personal 
data on behalf of the Customer.  
 
A.1. The purpose of the data processor’s processing of personal data on behalf of the 
data controller is:  
Providing backup services whereby the data controller can create and maintain data backup 
of certain cloud solutions used by the data controller at his discretion and initiative, and 
whereby the data controller restore data back to where the data originally resided or download 
data using the export/restore tools offered. 
 
A.2. The data processor’s processing of personal data on behalf of the data controller 
shall mainly pertain to (the nature of the processing): 
Providing a technical cloud-based solution that enables the data controller to perform backup, 
recover and restoration of their data cf. A.1., by making available data centers and technical 
solutions for extracting and creating data backup, at the data processor’s data centers. 
The personal data will be subject to several processing activities, including but not limited to: 
any operation or set of operations performed on personal data or on sets of personal data, 
solely by automated means, such as collection, recording, organization, structuring, storage, 
adaptation or alteration, retrieval, consultation, use, disclosure by transmission, dissemination 
or otherwise making available, alignment or combination, restriction, erasure or destruction. 
Such processing is carried out on an ongoing basis for the duration of the data controller’s use 
of the Services. 
The data processor only processes data by automatic means and stores the data of the data 
controller in data processor’s own data centers designated by the data controller. The data 
processor does not access and is not familiar with the content of the data controller’s backup 
data, unless the data controller specifically instructs the data processor to gain access hereto. 
 
A.3. The processing includes the following types of personal data about data subjects: 
Data may consist of any types of personal data about data subjects. It is entirely dependent of 
the data controller’s types of data and their use of the backup services.  
Personal data stored may contain any kind of non-sensitive personal data (such as contact 
information, bank information, names, addresses, e-mail addresses, information relating to 
criminal convictions and offences, national identification numbers) or special categories of per-
sonal data (such as health data, data revealing racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, reli-
gious or philosophical beliefs, etc.) as defined in GDPR article 9. 
 
A.4. Processing includes the following categories of data subject: 
The backup data may contain any categories of data subjects, and it is solely determined, 
changed, and controlled by the data controller. Data subjects may be customers, employees, 
patients, professionals, minors, etc. 
 
A.5. The data processor’s processing of personal data on behalf of the data controller 
may be performed when the Clauses commence. Processing has the following duration: 
The data controller can configure its own data retention rules within the Services. Data Reten-
tion refers to the amount of time a data object remains in the backup after being deleted from 
the data controller’s cloud solutions covered by the Services. 
At termination the data processor will retain all data processed under these Clauses for 30 
days after the deletion of the data controller's account or termination thereof. This “deletion 
retention” will ensure that the data controller's access to personal data can be reestablished 
after any conceivable targeted attack against the data controller's primary data and backup

Standard Contractual Clauses March 2024 
Page 12 of 17 
data. After expiration of the retention period, the data processor will delete all records of the 
data controller’s personal data without undue delay.

Standard Contractual Clauses March 2024 
Page 13 of 17 
Appendix B Authorised sub-processors  
 
B.1. Approved sub-processors 
On commencement of the Clauses, the data controller authorises the engagement of the fol-
lowing sub-processors: 
Name 
Location 
Role 
Keepit Poland Sp. z o.o. 
(Wholly-owned EU based  
affiliate of Keepit A/S)  
Poland 
Supporting Keepit’s delivery of 
customer support services. 
 
The data controller shall on the commencement of the Clauses authorize the use of 
the abovementioned sub-processors for the processing described for that party. 
The data processor shall not be entitled – without prior notice to the data controller 
– to engage a sub-processor for a ‘different’ processing than the one which has 
been agreed upon or have another sub-processor perform the described pro-
cessing 
 
B.2. Prior notice for the engagement or change of sub-processors 
In case of engagements, change or disengagements of sub-processors, the data processor 
will notify the data controller directly in writing about such change with thirty (30) calendar days’ 
notice cf. point 7.3 of the Clauses.  
The data controller will have twenty-five (25) calendar days to object to the change in writing 
to the data processor. The objection of the data controller must be well-founded. Absence of 
any objections from the data controller shall be deemed a consent to the sub-processing. 
In addition to notifying the data controller directly in writing about such changes, the processor 
will notify the change on its website, at www.keepit.com/data-processing-agreement/.

Standard Contractual Clauses March 2024 
Page 14 of 17 
Appendix C Instruction pertaining to the use of personal data  
 
C.1. The subject of/instruction for the processing 
The data processor’s processing of personal data on behalf of the data controller shall be 
carried out by the data processor performing the following: 
The Terms of Service along with the data controller's configuration and use of the Services 
constitute the data controller’s documented instructions to the data processor for purpose of 
providing backup services as described in i) these Clauses including appendices, particularly 
Appendix A, ii) the Terms of Service and data controller’s configuration regarding the data 
processor’s provision of the services. 
 
C.2. Security of processing 
The level of security shall take into account that the processing involves a large volume of 
personal data including personal data subject to Article 9 GDPR on ‘special categories of per-
sonal data’ which is why a ‘high’ level of security has been established. 
The data processor shall hereafter be entitled and under obligation to make decisions about 
the technical and organizational security measures that are to be applied to create the neces-
sary (and agreed) level of data security. The data processor may update the technical and 
organizational measures from time to time, as long as the updated measures do not decrease 
the overall protection of personal data.         
The data processor has described its current technical and organizational measures in a sep-
arate document “Keepit Technical and Organizational Measures”. Data Processor may update 
the technical and organizational measures from time to time, so long as the updated measures 
do not decrease the overall protection of personal data.  
 
C.3. Assistance to the data controller 
The data processor shall insofar as this is possible – within the scope and the extent of the 
assistance specified below – assist the data controller in accordance with Clause 9.1. and 9.2. 
by implementing the following technical and organisational measures: 
Taking into account the nature of the processing, the information available and insofar it is 
possible, the data processor provides reasonable assistance to the data controller by appro-
priate technical and organizational measures for the fulfilment of the data controller’s obligation 
to respond to requests for exercising the data subject's rights laid down in GDPR Chapter III. 
The data processor shall be compensated for the time devoted in relation to the assistance 
with responses to requests regarding the data subject's rights. The compensation shall be 
agreed upon separately. 
The data processor must assist the data controller in ensuring compliance with any of the data 
controller’s obligations pursuant to GDPR Articles 32-36. The data processor is entitled to re-
ceive separate compensation regarding such assistance. 
 
C.4. Storage period/erasure procedures  
Upon termination of the provision of personal data processing services, the data processor 
shall either delete or return the personal data in accordance with Clause 11.1., unless the data 
controller – after the signature of the contract – has modified the data controller’s original 
choice. Such modification shall be documented and kept in writing, including electronically, in 
connection with the Clauses.  
The data controller can configure its own retention rules within the Services and thereby de-
termine storage period and erasure procedures.

Standard Contractual Clauses March 2024 
Page 15 of 17 
C.5. Processing location 
Processing of the personal data under the Clauses cannot be performed at other locations 
than the following without the data controller’s prior written authorisation: 
Processing of personal data will take place in the data processor’s data center as designated 
by the data controller at the data controller’s configuration of the services or as set out in the 
agreement between the data processor and the data controller as the case may be. 
The data processor’s support organization may occasionally, as part of an ongoing support 
issue with the data controller, be requested by the data controller to access personal data. The 
request and the granting of access will be logged. Technical and organizational measures are 
in place to limit access to personal data, and all support activities that requires access to per-
sonal data will be performed by designated personnel located within EU. 
 
C.6. Instruction on the transfer of personal data to third countries  
Data processor does currently not transfer personal data to third countries. 
If the data controller does not in the Clauses or subsequently provide documented instructions 
pertaining to the transfer of personal data to a third country, the data processor shall not be 
entitled within the framework of the Clauses to perform such transfer.   
 
C.7. Procedures for the data controller’s audits, including inspections, of the pro-
cessing of personal data being performed by the data processor 
The data processor will on yearly basis obtain an independent third-party audit concerning the 
data processor's compliance. 
The parties have agreed that the following type of audit is sufficient for compliance purposes:  
SOC2 audit and ISO 27001:2022 certification. 
The data processor will conduct independent third-party audits of its organizational proce-
dures, security, and assets on a yearly basis as part of its SOC2 audit. The audit report of the 
most recent audit can be requested by the data controller free of charge.  
The data processor may, at its discretion, discontinue its SOC2 in favor of another relevant 
audit.  
The processor is ISO 27001:2022 certified and can provide the certification upon request. 
The data controller may at its own expense contest the scope and/or methodology of the report 
and may in such cases at its own expense request a new audit/inspection under a revised 
scope and/or different methodology, agreed by the parties.  
Based on the results of such an audit/inspection, the data controller may request further 
measures to be taken to ensure compliance with the GDPR, the applicable EU or Member 
State data protection provisions and the Clause.  
The parties have further agreed that the data controller may carry out on-site audits at the data 
processor’s premises located at Per Henrik Lings Allé 4, 7th floor, 2100 Copenhagen OE, 
Denmark.

Standard Contractual Clauses March 2024 
Page 16 of 17 
C.8. Procedures for audits, including inspections, of the processing of personal data 
being performed by sub-processors 
 
The data processor shall on a yearly basis obtain an auditor’s report from an independent third 
party concerning the sub-processor's compliance with the GDPR, the applicable EU or Mem-
ber State data protection provisions and the Clauses.  
 
Where the sub-processor forms part of the data processor’s organization, including by being 
an affiliate of the data processor, such audit may be conducted as a consolidated or 
group-level audit covering the relevant entities within the organization, provided that the audit 
sufficiently addresses the sub-processor’s compliance with the requirements set forth in this 
section C.8. In such case, a separate or individual audit report for each entity shall not be 
required. 
 
The parties have agreed that either of the following is sufficient for compliance purposes:  
SOC 2 audit and/or ISO 27001 certification. 
 
The SOC 2 audit and/or ISO 27001 certification shall upon request be submitted to the data 
controller for information.

Standard Contractual Clauses March 2024 
Page 17 of 17 
Appendix D The parties’ terms of agreement on other subjects 
 
The Clauses, including all appendices and schedules, form an integral part of and are incor-
porated into Keepit’s Terms of Service. Except as expressly set out in the Clauses, the Terms 
of Service shall govern the parties’ contractual relationship, including but not limited to limita-
tion of liability, ownership of data, acceptable use of the Service, confidentiality, and other 
commercial terms.
