Source URL: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/EN/Keepit-Intelligent-Data-Governance-Report.pdf
Content type: PDF document
Title: unknown
Pages: 29
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Intelligent data 
governance
Why taking control of your 
data is key for operational 
continuity and innovation

Intelligent data governance  |  2
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved
Executive summary ................................................................................................... 4 
Introduction ...................................................................................................................6
The broader context: Major trends shaping enterprise IT ..................................................... 7
The importance of “always-on” data ................................................................ 9
From creation to deletion: The data lifecycle ........................................................................ 9
Usage: Putting data to work .................................................................................................. 11
Data powers the present ......................................................................................................... 11
Data determines the future ...................................................................................................... 11
Resilience against data loss and corruption ................................................ 14
What causes data outages? ................................................................................................. 14
Bringing backup to the forefront ......................................................................................... 15
Training and testing for resilience ........................................................................................ 16
Guidelines: Testing backup and recovery .................................................................................... 17
The foundational role of data governance .................................................. 19
Data governance as an investment ....................................................................................... 19
Data classification: The foundation of data governance  ....................................................  20
Delegation in data classification ............................................................................................. 21
Modern data classification and AI-powered tools ....................................................................... 21
AI considerations .......................................................................................................................... 21
A practical approach to governance .............................................................. 23
Engaging leadership in governance ................................................................................... 23
10 questions for board discussions ........................................................................................... 24
Finding a governance framework ........................................................................................ 24
10 questions to guide framework choices .................................................................................. 25
Creating a classification strategy ....................................................................................... 26
10 questions for classification strategy ...................................................................................... 26
Conclusion .................................................................................................................. 28
Next steps: Finding a trusted partner ................................................................................. 28
Intelligent data governance

Executive 
summary
01

Executive summary
Intelligent data governance  |  4
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved
“He who defends everything defends nothing.” 
This quote by Frederick the Great highlights the importance of prioritization, and now, 
centuries later, organizations continue to work with finite resources, and prioritization remains 
essential to ensuring those resources are optimally directed in support of strategies and 
desired outcomes.
A crucial enabler of prioritization for today’s digital-centric businesses is data and system 
classification: the process of separating and organizing data and systems into relevant groups 
based on shared characteristics, such as the level of sensitivity, risks presented, and privacy 
and protection requirements. Clear data and system classification enables organizations to:
•	Implement safeguards aligned with protection needs, such as those required by regulations (e.g., 
GDPR, NIS2, DORA, HIPAA, etc.), certifications, standards, and contracts
•	Define and execute comprehensive backup and recovery programs to improve resilience (i.e., 
prevention, detection, and recovery) against disruption or corruption — whether from a cyberattack 
or a more mundane cause
•	Safely and responsibly introduce new technologies and processes, including software-as-a-
service (SaaS) applications and cutting-edge AI capabilities
In fact, data classification is a necessary element of data governance, which consists 
of policies and standards intended to ensure the availability, quality, and security of an 
organization’s data. While data governance initiatives are often driven by applicable 
regulations and obligations, the benefits of such programs also include stronger business 
continuity and overall resilience, improved data accuracy and better outcomes based on that 
data (e.g., from day-to-day operations to breakthrough research), and greater data literacy 
and scale within the organization.
Rather than being perceived as burdensome overhead, data governance should be 
understood as a means to achieve highly desired outcomes more effectively and efficiently.
As CISOs and CIOs are responsible for supporting business continuity and enabling 
the business to innovate and advance, data governance programs typically fall on their 
shoulders. In collaboration with departments that own and use the organization’s data, 
and (ideally) with the support of the board, investors, and other senior executives, these IT 
leaders must adopt or develop a data governance framework that supports innovation while 
ensuring business continuity.
By doing so, CISOs and CIOs will create a strong foundation for their modern,  
data-driven enterprises.
I hope you find the report interesting. 
Kim Larsen
Keepit CISO
Executive summary

Introduction
02

Introduction
Intelligent data governance  |  6
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved
Today’s Chief Information Officers (CIOs) and Chief Information Security Officers (CISOs) have 
two responsibilities that perhaps exist above all others:
1	 Support business continuity, by ensuring data and systems are available to the organization’s people, 
processes, and technologies and maintain adequate security levels
2	Enable the business to innovate and advance, by supporting research and development functions, 
including the introduction and adoption of new applications, workflows, and technologies
The thesis of this document is that because data is an essential component of these 
responsibilities — and therefore underpins both an organization’s biggest opportunities and 
biggest risks —  data governance should command serious attention and consideration.
In the context in which today’s organizations operate (see next page), such a statement may seem 
boring or even quaint. However, the operational reality is that data control is the prerequisite 
for practically everything an organization does or strives to do — including complying with 
regulations, contractual obligations, and even acquiring cyber insurance.
Where is your data? What data is important and why? Who has access to it?
Answering these questions is critically important, as without a clear understanding and mapping 
of your data, you can’t determine which processes and technologies to implement to preserve its 
availability, and you can’t responsibly, effectively, or efficiently innovate.
In the pages that follow, we’ll explore:
•	The importance of always-on data to today’s organizations
•	How to build resilience against data disruption and corruption
•	The foundational role of data governance in general, and data classification in particular
•	A practical approach to help you and your organization get started with data governance
Introduction

Introduction
Intelligent data governance  |  7
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved
 
Cloud flexibility 
Most organizations have attempted to 
optimize workloads across public cloud, 
private data centers, and edge deployments.
 
 
 
 
SaaS adoption 
Organizations of all sizes have embraced 
software-as-a-service (SaaS) apps, but 
with this added convenience comes extra 
considerations for data protection and 
continuity planning.
 
The rise of AI 
Organizations are under pressure from 
investors and leaders to implement AI but 
must do so in a manner compliant with 
relevant laws and regulations governing data 
protection, privacy, and security (e.g., GDPR, 
HIPAA, PCI DSS, NIS2, DORA, etc.).
 
Interconnected risks 
Security, IT, compliance, and financial risks 
are increasingly interlinked, but regulatory 
frameworks remain siloed — forcing CISOs to 
develop unified risk management approaches 
while still mapping controls to specific 
regional requirements.
 
Budget pressures 
Cybersecurity and data governance may 
be seen as necessities, but budgets to 
implement and manage such programs 
remain limited — especially when they’re 
seen as costs rather than investments.
 
 
The broader context: 
Major trends shaping enterprise IT
To understand which challenges CIOs and CISOs are facing — and how they’re confronting 
them — Keepit conducted interviews with over 30 senior IT leaders across a range of 
industries. These in-depth conversations revealed key trends that serve as context for today’s 
enterprise IT organizations, including:
 Learn more in our e-book, The Great Balancing Act: Cybersecurity leaders tackle rising pressures

The importance 
of “always-on” 
data 
03

The importance of “always-on” data
Intelligent data governance  |  9
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved
Key takeaways:
•	Data is ubiquitous in today’s organizations, and much of it is governed by regulations or is 
subject to other compliance obligations.
•	Data powers the present and creates the future, fueling day-to-day activities and serving 
as a critical input into innovation and improvement programs.
•	Maintaining access to uncorrupted data is essential and is one of the primary objectives 
of today’s CIOs and CISOs.
The importance of “always-on” data
DATA GOVERNANCE TIP
Regulations rightfully receive a 
great deal of attention, but don’t 
overlook obligations relating to:
•	Contracts
•	Industry standards
•	Certifications
Today’s organizations work with massive volumes of data in a wide range of forms, with 
some of the most common being:
•	Intellectual property including trade secrets, algorithms, business process details, source 
code, and customer lists
•	Internal and external communications, including text or chat messages, emails, voice calls, 
and videoconference recordings and transcripts
•	Employee, customer/client, and third-party service provider data 
including personally identifiable information (PII), personal health 
information (PHI), and payment card information (PCI)
•	Operational telemetry and sensor data, such as security events and 
capacity, performance, or load distribution data 
•	Identity and access management (IAM) data, including keys, tokens, 
and credentials
Much of this data is subject to regulatory requirements pertaining 
to privacy and security that apply through the entire data lifecycle 
(see Figure 1, below).
Looking beyond regulations, many standards, certifications, 
and interoperability frameworks include similar requirements — 
particularly around access controls, secure storage, and secure transit.
From creation to deletion: The data lifecycle
Figure 1 – Simple representation of the data lifecycle (note that some models include additional intermediate stages, 
particularly around data processing or transformation).
Creation
Storage
Archival
Usage
Deletion

The importance of “always-on” data
Intelligent data governance  |  10
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved
While data lifecycle models differ in the details, they generally begin (from an 
organization’s perspective) with data’s creation or acquisition and end with its 
permanent deletion. 
We won’t dwell on the lifecycle too much, but instead will simply make a few points.
As noted, data can be:
•	Created: Some combination of human and machine effort generates new data, typically 
with data serving as an input to the process; or
•	Acquired: The organization comes into possession of data (e.g., a customer provides their 
information or completes a survey, the organization purchases or subscribes to a data 
source, equipment or applications produce telemetry, etc.).
Once acquired, data needs to be stored, with consideration given to:
•	Regulatory (and similar) requirements;
•	Cybersecurity concerns;
•	Accessibility; and
•	Availability (including redundancy and restoration capabilities).
Complicating matters, today’s IT environments include complex combinations of 
public and private clouds, SaaS applications, and on-premises infrastructure, as well 
as local storage on devices such as laptops and mobile phones. Add into this mix the 
rapid rise of AI — with its well-documented appetite for training and production data — 
and the unknowns associated with shadow IT, and it’s easy to see why “data sprawl” is a 
growing concern for IT leaders.
Next, data is put to use. In a moment, we’ll examine this stage in slightly more detail, but 
for now we’ll emphasize that understanding, establishing, and enforcing rules about 
which entities (e.g., people, devices, applications, and other systems) can access 
which data, for what purposes, is an important aspect of data governance. Moreover, 
not all users of an organization’s data are within that organization, as contractors, 
partners, vendors, and other external service providers also need controlled access.
At some point, data may no longer be needed for daily operations, or it may require 
deletion due to legal, regulatory, or compliance mandates, such as GDPR’s ‘Right 
to Be Forgotten.’ While some data can be deleted, other data must be retained for 
regulatory or business reasons. Regardless of the retention period, organizations 
should regularly test their backup and recovery processes to ensure that critical data 
remains accessible and intact when needed.
Finally, data that has no purpose or value — or that is subject to strict timelines 
governing how long it can be held — is permanently deleted. In the past, many 
organizations elected to retain data as long as possible “just in case”; however, in 
the contemporary climate of headline-grabbing data breaches and ever-stricter 
regulations, unnecessarily retaining data is regarded as introducing risk and liability.

The importance of “always-on” data
Intelligent data governance  |  11
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved
Usage: Putting data to work
Let’s now circle back to the usage stage of the data lifecycle to illustrate how data 
is the lifeblood nurturing both an enterprise’s day-to-day operations and future 
aspirations.
Data powers the present
Typically, only a fraction of an organization’s resources is focused on the future; in most 
cases, considerably more attention is given to the processes, decisions, actions, and 
other activities that comprise day-to-day operations. In today’s digital businesses, 
data plays a vital role in
•	Communication utilities (e.g., email, instant messaging)
•	Collaboration platforms (e.g., Slack, Microsoft Teams)
•	Enterprise software suites
•	Domain- and industry-specific applications
•	Operational technology (OT), including industrial controllers and sensors
•	IT infrastructure
•	Customer relationship management (CRM) and customer data platforms (CDPs)
•	Human resources management (HRM) software
•	Inventory and production management software
•	Accounting, payroll, and other financial management software
•	SaaS applications (according to BetterCloud, the average company has deployed 103 SaaS 
apps, and the average enterprise has deployed 158.)
•	…and many others
What’s more, internal processes and technologies are remarkably interconnected, 
so a disruption in any one area has the potential to create ripples — some small, some 
significant, some truly disastrous — throughout the rest of the organization.
Data determines the future
A complete focus on today is a surefire way to become irrelevant 
tomorrow. Consequently, as their roles continue to evolve, CISOs 
and CIOs will be defined by their ability to enable and protect the 
innovation that’s so critical to an organization’s future.
Notably, innovation comes in multiple forms, including creating 
net new things (e.g., a research and development program) and 
finding more effective and efficient ways to do the things already 
being done.
DATA GOVERNANCE TIP
Before introducing a new 
technology or onboarding a 
new third-party provider, you 
need to determine which data 
and systems will be used and 
impacted.
Be sure to consider regulatory 
(and other) obligations and a 
cost/benefit analysis (including 
risk assessments).

The importance of “always-on” data
Intelligent data governance  |  12
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved
In practice, innovation relies upon some mix of people, processes, and technology — 
all of which are dependent upon data. For example:
•	Artificial intelligence (whether ‘traditional’ machine learning or modern generative AI) 
typically relies upon vast volumes of data for training and validation.
•	Many organizations have implemented hybrid clouds in pursuit of benefits including lower 
operating costs, better customer experiences, simplified compliance, greater agility, 
stronger security, and more. Storage (e.g., of data) is a major factor in any cloud decision.
•	Enterprises today rely on SaaS applications to boost productivity and enable new functions 
and capabilities; every SaaS app they adopt will ingest, store, and transform data.
•	Few organizations do everything in house, with most make use of contractors, vendors, 
and service providers; all of these members of the extended workforce likely need at least 
some access to at least some data, while being restricted from accessing data not needed 
for their work.

Resilience against data loss and corruption
Intelligent data governance  |  13
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved04
Resilience 
against data loss 
and corruption

Resilience against data loss and corruption
Intelligent data governance  |  14
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved
Key takeaways:
•	There are three aspects to data resilience:  
(1) Preventing disruptions, (2) detecting problems, and (3) recovering to a safe state as quickly as 
possible, should a disruption occur.
•	Cyberattacks grab headlines, but account for only a small fraction of outages:  
Leaders shouldn’t overlook much more common causes, including misconfigurations, technical faults/
failures, natural disasters, contractual disputes, and human error.
•	Backup and recovery should be considered crucial components of operational hygiene:  
An emergency or other moment of desperation is not a good time to discover that processes or 
technologies aren’t performing as needed.
Resilience against data 
loss and corruption
As we’ve seen, today’s organizations rely on data. While responsibility is largely delegated, leaders, 
including the CIO and CISO, are ultimately accountable for ensuring data resilience — so that users, 
applications, and other entities can access the data stores as needed.
Resilience itself has three primary components:
•	Prevention: Technological and procedural mechanisms maintain uptime and guard against corruption, 
inadvertent deletion, and unauthorized access.
•	Detection: The ability to identify (as quickly as possible) outages, malicious or accidental changes, 
unauthorized access, and other problems or threats.
•	Recovery: In the event that disruption occurs, ensuring that the organization has and is able to execute the 
processes, supported by technology solutions, to restore data access as quickly and completely as possible.
Prevention is largely about robust IT architecture, redundant connectivity, identity and access 
management (IAM), and service level agreements (SLAs) with vendors, while detection leverages 
technical measures including real-time alerts and log monitoring.
For the purposes of this document, we’ll presume that IT leaders have such matters covered. 
Recovery, though, deserves some attention.
What causes data outages?
Cyberattacks garner headlines and cyber defense is rightfully 
becoming a board-level issue, but leaders shouldn’t let the threat of 
adversary-associated outages distract from other common causes.
For broad perspective, we can look to Splunk’s  “The hidden costs 
of downtime” which states that downtime stems from two main 
sources: 56% from security incidents (e.g., phishing attacks), while 
Outages are common 
and costly
“A typical Global 2000 
company sees 466 hours 
of cybersecurity-related 
downtime and 456 hours of 
application or infrastructure-
related downtime“
According to Splunk.

Resilience against data loss and corruption
Intelligent data governance  |  15
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved
44% comes from app or infrastructure issues (e.g., software failures). In both cases, 
human error is the leading cause and the hardest to detect and remediate.
Data outages are likely to be caused by a handful of comparatively mundane issues 
(each of which has many underlying contributors, including human error):
•	Power: 44%
•	Network: 14%
•	IT systems (hardware, software): 13%
•	Cooling: 13%
•	Third-party provider: 8%
For example, in May 2024, UniSuper (an Australian superannuation fund managing 
$135 billion for 647,000 members) faced an unprecedented crisis when their entire 
Google Cloud account — including backups — was suddenly gone, the result of 
a misconfiguration within Google Cloud’s system. This “one-of-a-kind event,” as 
described by Google, wiped out UniSuper’s cloud subscription and its backups stored 
across multiple geographic locations. The result was a nearly two-week outage that 
left members without access to their accounts. Fortunately, UniSuper had maintained 
additional backups with an independent third-party provider, which proved to be the 
saving grace and played a crucial role in the recovery process.
More widely known, though, is the massive outage that began in July 2024, when 
cybersecurity company CrowdStrike rolled out a faulty update to their Falcon Sensor 
security software. Worldwide, approximately 8.5 million Windows systems crashed 
and could not be properly restarted, resulting in what has been called the largest 
outage in the history of IT as organizations struggled to restore systems and the data 
they housed.
So, while CIOs and CISOs should definitely champion a strong 
security posture, care must be taken not to overlook the more 
prosaic everyday risks.
Bringing backup to the forefront
Because few developments have the potential to stop an 
organization in its tracks — and to keep it stopped — like a data 
outage, the ability to recover critical systems should never be left 
to assumptions or chance.
Rather, the organization’s backup and recovery preparedness 
should be elevated from “IT concerns” to board-level 
considerations, alongside other operational resilience, business 
continuity, and compliance matters.
3-2-1 … backup!
The 3-2-1 principle comes from 
the days of on-premises data 
storage, yet still has relevance in 
the modern, cloud-computing 
area.
Roughly speaking, the 3-2-1 
backup rule requires:
•	3 copies of data, across…
•	2 types of storage media, 
with…
•	1 copy stored off site or in an 
independent cloud.
 Learn more in 3-2-1 
backup rule update: Air gap 
your immutable backups

Resilience against data loss and corruption
Intelligent data governance  |  16
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved
In fact, compliance could be an effective way to bring backup to the forefront. For 
example, for those organizations subject to European Union’s NIS2 Directive, achieving 
compliance is likely a high-priority project, with regular reporting to the executive 
ranks. But how many executive teams know that Article 21 of the NIS2 Directive sets out 
clear cybersecurity risk-management measures “to protect network and information 
systems” that focus on ensuring business continuity through “backup management 
and disaster recovery.”
How many understand that with the NIS2 Directive, the governance provisions are 
tightened so that the responsibility for violation is not only imposed on the legal entity 
but on the management itself?
And NIS2 is hardly an exception when it comes to these (and similar) obligations, so 
such concerns aren’t limited to organizations based in or operating in the EU.
Moreover, backup and recovery must be understood as being more than just creating 
copies of data for future access. Are the copies secure? Is the data within backup 
repositories immutable? Are the repositories accessible, and is that access itself 
redundant? What are the different procedures for recovering different systems?
Even such basic questions as these can open hearts and minds to the subject’s 
complexities and subtleties — and the more that executives understand backup and 
recovery, the more resources will be made available to the CIOs and CISOs looking to 
protect the organization.
Training and testing for resilience
Too often, backup systems and recovery processes have been 
managed with a “set it and forget it” approach in which the 
organization selects and implements one or more solutions, 
defines and validates some recovery processes, and then largely 
ignores the subject except for periodic and fairly superficial 
checks.
But this hope-for-the-best approach just isn’t good enough — for 
your organization or for regulators. Rather, it takes a combination 
of training and testing to build, maintain, refine, and validate your 
ability to recover following a data loss or corruption event.
Training is intended to ensure that each member of your team 
knows their responsibilities within the recovery processes, so that 
decisions can be made and workflows can be executed quickly 
and efficiently.
Monkeying around
Chaos engineering is the 
practice of intentionally 
creating faults and unforeseen 
scenarios within a system to 
test (and ultimately improve) its 
resilience.
While the discipline’s origins 
date to (at least) development 
of the first Apple Macintosh in 
1983, chaos engineering gained 
new prominence in 2011 with 
Netflix’ Chaos Monkey tool.
To be clear, we aren’t 
suggesting you should 
randomly disable systems or 
embrace anarchy; however, 
we are adamant that the more 
exercises you conduct (from 
small disruptions to “extinction-
level” events), the more resilient 
your organization will be.

Resilience against data loss and corruption
Intelligent data governance  |  17
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved
Testing ensures that data recovery is possible in the event of a real crisis. Testing should 
cover full recovery (i.e., not simply confirming that backup copies exist) and should be 
applied to the full range of data and systems an organization might need to restore. 
After all, an emergency is not the time to discover that there’s an issue with a particular 
restoration process or that a critical SaaS system has changed how it ingests data.
Of course, CIOs and CISOs operate in a world of limited resources, which imposes 
the need for prioritization. In the context of backup and recovery, prioritization means 
answering questions like:
•	Which data is most important to our operations?
•	What systems need to be restored first?
•	What are our compliance (and similar) obligations?
Such questions aren’t limited to the scope of backup and recovery — they’re also a part 
of data governance.
Guidelines: Testing backup and recovery
Ensuring the effectiveness of your backup and disaster recovery processes is crucial for 
maintaining data integrity and business continuity. Put simply, the more direct, hands-on 
experience your team has in this regard, the better prepared they’ll be to swiftly recover 
critical data in diverse, pressure-packed, real-world scenarios.
Here are key steps to follow while testing your capabilities:
1	 Validate restoration capability promptly: Promptly validate that your backup systems can 
efficiently restore critical data without compromising integrity. 
2	 Determine acceptable downtime: Establish the maximum allowable time for data recovery, 
aligning with recovery time objectives set during prioritization.
3	 Regularly test backups for confidence: Frequently test your backups to instill confidence in 
your disaster recovery plan and promptly address any identified issues.
4	 Consider different scenarios: Simulate diverse scenarios, testing the recovery of individual 
files, entire databases, and complete systems to identify weaknesses.
5	 Document and analyze results: After each testing session, document and analyze the time, 
accuracy, and challenges encountered to gain insights for improvement.
6	 Involve relevant stakeholders: Collaborate with IT teams, data custodians, and business 
continuity managers to ensure comprehensive testing aligns with broader goals.
7	 Update and improve: Continuously update recovery plans based on testing insights, addressing 
weaknesses, refining procedures, and adapting to evolving threats.
Diligently adhering to the rigorous testing guidelines outlined above paves the way for a 
robust IT compliance policy and serves as proactive measures against evolving cyberthreats.

05
The 
foundational 
role of data 
governance

The foundational role of data governance
Intelligent data governance  |  19
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved
Key takeaways:
•	Data governance is an investment in the business: Effective data governance supports 
business continuity and resilience, impacts any and all outcomes based on data, guards 
against compliance failures, and improves the organization’s ability to work with data.
•	Data classification is the foundation of data governance: Creating and leveraging a data 
governance framework begins with a data classification standard.
•	Data classification is a team effort: Leaders establish and champion effective governance 
and delegate classification to data owners; data owners collaborate with data users to 
determine prioritization.
•	Modern tooling can lessen the burden of data classification:AI-powered data 
classification solutions help to categorize existing data, keep up with new data, and 
enable automation of data-centric processes.
Data  
Management
Data  
Governance
Data  
Classification
Figure 2 - While definitions and interpretations 
vary, data governance is usually considered to 
be a subset of data management
The foundational role of 
data governance
Existing under the broad umbrella of data management, 
data governance is a program — implemented via policies 
and standards — intended to ensure the availability, 
quality, and security of an organization’s data, in 
accordance with applicable regulations and obligations 
(e.g., contractual commitments, adhering to industry 
standards, fulfilling requirements for certifications, etc.).
Within data governance, data classification is the process 
of separating and organizing data into relevant groups 
(“classes”) based on shared characteristics, such as 
the level of sensitivity, risks presented, and privacy and 
protection requirements.
As we will now see, data governance in general and data 
classification in particular are essential foundations of the 
modern, data-driven enterprise.
Data governance as an investment
An effective data governance program delivers several beneficial outcomes.
First, by helping to ensure the availability, quality, and security of an 
organization’s data, data governance is a pillar of organizational and business 
continuity and overall resilience.

The foundational role of data governance
Intelligent data governance  |  20
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved
Second, because data governance helps improve overall data accuracy, it also impacts 
outcomes based on that data — which can range from comparatively simple day-to-day 
business decisions and operations to more complex, forward-looking initiatives including 
research and development, automation, and AI-focused programs.
Third, by supporting the organization’s efforts to comply with regulations and other 
obligations, data governance helps to avoid both the direct consequences of failing to 
comply and the negative outcomes that regulations, standards, contracts, and similar 
obligations are intended to guard against.
Finally, an effective data governance program permeates the entire organization, increasing 
data literacy and contributing to improved data scale. Along with data quality, and the 
confidence that comes with knowing data is being handled in a manner that respects privacy 
and ensures its security, these factors act as a rising tide that levels-up all of the organization’s 
data-related capabilities.
Data classification: The foundation of data governance
An organization’s resources are finite and must be deployed in alignment with priorities. In 
a data governance context, this means that organizations must begin by establishing and 
implementing a foundation of data (and system) classification.
To protect sensitive data and support the continuity of systems and processes that depend 
on it, data must be located, classified according to its level of sensitivity, and accurately 
tagged. Then, enterprises must handle each group of data in ways that ensure only authorized 
people (both internal and external) can gain access, and that the data is always handled in 
compliance with relevant regulations.
To create a data classification strategy, information is divided into predefined groups that 
share a common risk (see Figure 3, below), and the corresponding security controls required 
to secure each group type are identified.
“Public”
“Internal only”
“Confidential”
“Restricted”
Data that is freely 
disclosed to the public
Data that is not meant to 
be shared outside of the 
company
Sensitive data that, if 
compromised, could negatively 
affect operations
Highly sensitive corporate data 
that, if compromised, could 
lead to financial or legal risk
Examples:
•	Marketing materials
•	Sales data sheets
•	Support documentation
Examples:
•	Battle cards
•	Sales playbooks
•	Organizational charts
•	Strategy presentations
Examples:
•	Contact information
•	Price lists
•	Next year go-to market plans
•	Product roadmap presentations
Examples: 
•	Personal customer 
information (e.g., social 
security numbers)
•	Customer credit card data
•	Employee contact 
information
Figure 3 – An example data classification approach

The foundational role of data governance
Intelligent data governance  |  21
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved
Delegation in data classification 
Understanding the nature of your data is key to strengthening your organization’s data 
resilience.
Whether safeguarding CEO emails, logistics data, customer information, intelligence 
dashboards, or proprietary code, identifying the priority for recovery establishes 
a strategic foundation — speeding up recovery and ensuring that your business 
continuity efforts are precisely aligned with the specific datasets crucial for sustaining 
your operations.
While upper management has an important role to play in championing data 
governance and, in some jurisdictions, is legally responsible for regulatory violations, 
assigning prioritization should be delegated to the departments that actually own and 
manage different subsets of the organization’s data.
It is these owners who, in close collaboration with the users and consumers of data, 
must make the tough calls about the relative importance of different datasets, thereby 
forming the basis for strategic prioritization. 
Modern data classification and AI-powered tools
When done correctly, data classification makes using and 
protecting data easier and more efficient and becomes the 
foundation for critical data governance strategies and the driver 
for broad security controls.
However, because the process can seem burdensome and 
intimidating, there can be a tendency for organizations to ‘drag 
their feet’ on this important initiative.
Fortunately, classification tools — especially those powered by 
modern AI technologies — can significantly lessen the burdens 
associated with helping to discover your data and create scalable 
classification processes and systems.
Plus, these tools can also help with day-to-day adherence to 
data classification guidelines, by automating the treatment and 
handling of sensitive data and by promoting a culture of security 
that increases awareness of data sensitivity and prevents the 
storing of sensitive content on removable media or third-party 
web portals.
AI considerations
AI offers powerful capabilities for automation, analysis, and efficiency, but it also 
comes with risks, including data integrity challenges, evolving cyberthreats, and 
unpredictable system behavior. Human intelligence is still essential for the successful 
implementation of data and classification systems. 
 
AI should be viewed and used as an assistant — not a decision-maker. AI-driven tools 
should be implemented with a strong focus on security, compliance, and user control. 
It is essential to ensure that AI does not alter or manipulate critical data in unintended 
ways. As AI continues to evolve, responsible adoption requires transparency, rigorous 
testing, and safeguards that protect data while enabling innovation and resilience. 
DATA GOVERNANCE TIP
If a company is investing in a 
data management platform 
that will leverage AI, it may be 
worth classifying the top and 
most-sensitive category with 
sub-categories to indicate 
regulatory relevance or alternate 
access control models that 
may be required, such as PCI 
data, GDPR-relevant data, and 
unpublished financial data.
There are very effective AI-
enabled data classification 
applications available, such as 
IBM Guardium, Informatica Data 
Catalog, or Microsoft Purview 
(formally Azure Purview) as a few 
examples

06
A practical 
approach 
to data 
governance

A practical approach to data governance
Intelligent data governance  |  23
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved
Key takeaways:
•	Tap into the board of directors and investors: Foster an ongoing relationship, including 
agenda time during board meetings, by aligning with business objectives, translating 
technical concepts, demonstrating ROI, and seeking board feedback and support.
•	Mix and match from existing frameworks to create something that works for your 
organization: Many frameworks exist, but finding one that fits your needs can be a major 
challenge; instead, review what’s available and adopt a structure that meets today’s needs 
and can be adapted or extended as your organization evolves.
•	Find and classify your data: Don’t let perfect be the enemy of good enough — three or four 
classification categories are usually sufficient and won’t overwhelm the departments and 
personnel whose support is crucial for the program’s success.
A practical approach to governance
Sound data governance depends on adopting a precise — yet practical — framework for consistent 
data handling across the organization.
To help you choose which path is best for your organization, and to maximize your success on the data 
governance journey, we offer the following guidance.
Engaging leadership in governance
Fostering a culture of awareness and accountability at the highest levels of leadership builds trust 
with stakeholders and, in the long run, better protects your organization’s assets.
Ideally, CISOs, CIOs, and other IT leaders can earn the opportunity to involve and update board 
members periodically — even if only for 15 minutes of a board meeting. To do so, we recommend:
•	Aligning with business objectives: Frame data governance discussions in the context of the company’s 
overall business objectives and risk tolerance. Highlight the impact of data governance on key business 
functions, financial performance, and reputation.
•	Translate technical concepts: When discussing or presenting data governance concepts, adopt terminology 
and leverage examples that can be easily understood by board members who may not have a technical 
background. Focus on the importance of data governance as a business enabler and risk mitigation measure, 
rather than as a purely technical issue or compliance checkbox.
•	Demonstrate ROI: Clearly articulate the return on investment (ROI) of data governance initiatives by 
quantifying the potential cost savings, risk reductions, and business benefits associated with effective 
classifications and controls. Use case studies and risk-impact metrics to illustrate the tangible impact of 
investments or potential costs of inaction.
•	Seek board feedback and support: Solicit feedback from board members on data governance strategy, 
priorities, and challenges. Leverage board members’ experience, expertise, and networks to garner support 
for governance initiatives and resource allocation.

A practical approach to data governance
Intelligent data governance  |  24
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved
10 questions for board discussions
To prepare for involving the board and investors in data governance discussions,  
ask and answer these questions:
What is the current level of understanding and engagement of our board members regarding data 
governance?
How frequently are cybersecurity, business continuity, compliance, and other subjects related to 
data governance discussed in board meetings?
What risk scenarios, analogies, or case studies should we present to the board to illustrate the 
business implications of data governance?
What specific topics or areas of concern do executive leadership and board members have about 
data governance and areas it impacts?
How can we effectively translate technical data governance concepts into business language that 
resonates with board members?
What educational sessions or materials can we provide to enhance board members’ 
understanding of data governance and closely related matters?
What is our current level of investment in data governance, and how does it compare to industry 
benchmarks?
What are the potential cost savings, risk reductions, and business benefits associated with our 
data governance initiatives?
What mechanisms can we establish for ongoing communication and collaboration between IT 
leaders and the board?
How can we leverage board members’ experience, expertise, and networks to support data 
governance initiatives?
 
Finding a governance framework 
Successful data governance requires rapid adoption of a chosen framework. Ideally, 
the framework is sufficiently precise and practical that it becomes the structure 
around which stakeholders will collaborate to ensure data is handled consistently 
across the organization.
However, getting started with data governance can feel overwhelming — especially 
if it’s your first foray into the field or if your organization has paid little attention to the 
subject until now.
The good news is that there are many existing options from which to choose, including:
•	The Data Governance Institute’s Data Governance Framework
•	DAMA International’s Data Management Body of Knowledge
•	Frameworks from Eckerson Group, PwC, and Deloitte

A practical approach to data governance
Intelligent data governance  |  25
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved
But the less good news is that one of the top challenges reported to us by interviewed leaders is 
identifying and adopting an appropriate data governance framework that fits their organization.
For example, a framework has to be comprehensive enough to meet your organization’s needs but 
shouldn’t extend so far that it imposes work that has little or no practical purpose beyond simply 
adhering to the framework.
Similarly, a framework should be robust, but not so rigid that it can’t be extended to new pipelines 
and processes that emerge as your organization evolves.
For most organizations, the best (i.e., most practical, efficient, and effective) approach is to 
balance a set of fundamental elements common to existing frameworks with additional guidance 
introduced for specific applications and workflows.
10 questions to guide framework choices
To help find the framework that’s right for your organization,  
start by asking these questions:
How should data governance support our organization’s decision-making processes and reduce 
operational inefficiencies?
What governance structures (e.g., data governance council, data stewards) do we need to 
establish to oversee data governance efforts?
What policies and standards do we need to develop to govern data effectively (e.g., data 
classification, data quality, data privacy) and how can they consistently be applied and adhered to 
across the organization?
How will our data governance framework help us comply with relevant regulations and industry 
standards (e.g., GDPR, HIPAA, PCI-DSS, etc.) — and how will we monitor and respond to changes 
in the regulatory landscape?
Is there an existing data governance framework that aligns well with our organization’s goals and 
existing data management practices?
If no framework is a particularly good fit, then what elements from existing frameworks can be 
adopted — and what gaps remain?
How will we identify and address challenges as we implement our chosen framework?
What roles and responsibilities should be assigned to different stakeholders within the 
organization to ensure clear ownership and accountability across various departments?
What processes will we implement to review and update policies and standards regularly?
How will we train and educate employees about our data governance framework and their roles 
in the governance process — and how will we measure the effectiveness of our training and 
awareness efforts?

A practical approach to data governance
Intelligent data governance  |  26
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved
Creating a classification strategy
Establishing effective data governance frameworks 
requires precise, practical data classification. In fact, this 
classification work sets the stage for everything else by 
forming the foundation for critical data governance that 
ultimately makes it easier to use and protect data.
Organizational buy-in is essential, as developing data 
classification models, compliance controls, and other 
framework elements is labor intensive and requires timely 
and informed input from data owners in various departments.
10 questions for classification strategy
To help plan and execute your data classification strategy,  
start by asking these questions:
What are the primary objectives of our data classification strategy, and how do they align with our 
overall data governance framework?
What types of data do we collect, store, and process, and where is this data located?
How sensitive is the data we handle, and what are the potential risks associated with unauthorized 
access or disclosure?
How does data classification support our compliance with industry regulations and standards 
(e.g., GDPR, HIPAA, PCI-DSS, etc.) — and how do we ensure ongoing compliance as relevant 
regulations and industry standards evolve?
What are the key business functions that rely on accurate data classification, how are they 
impacted by our classification strategy, and what is their expected (and agreed upon) level of 
involvement?
What predefined groups or categories will we use for data classification (e.g., Public, Internal only, 
Confidential, Restricted)?
What processes and procedures will we implement to classify data according to its sensitivity and 
importance?
How will we ensure that each data category has the appropriate security controls and access 
restrictions? How will we tag and label classified data to facilitate proper handling and protection?
What tools and technologies are available to support our data classification efforts, and how will 
we evaluate and select data classification tools?
What metrics and KPIs will we use to monitor the effectiveness of our data classification strategy?
DATA GOVERNANCE TIP
If your organization is beginning 
its data classification journey 
without a platform or tool, resist 
the urge to get too granular, as 
granular classification schemes 
tend to cause confusion and 
become unmanageable.
For most organizations, three to 
four classification categories are 
usually sufficient, and will allow 
your data governance initiatives 
to get off to a strong start.

Conclusion
07

Conclusion
Intelligent data governance  |  28
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved
Data sits at the center of both the biggest risks and the biggest opportunities facing 
organizations. CISOs and CIOs are responsible for safeguarding data with robust protections 
while also ensuring it’s available — in the right forms, to the right people, at the right time — to 
power both day-to-day operations and innovation initiatives.
Rather than being perceived as burdensome overhead, data governance should be 
understood as a means to achieve these desired outcomes more effectively and efficiently.
Ideally working with the support of the board, investors, and senior executives, and 
collaborating closely with the departments that own and use the organization’s data, it falls to 
CISOs and CIOs to champion and lead the data governance programs that are foundations of 
the modern, data-driven enterprise.
But data governance is not possible without data classification. The categories and 
other labels assigned to the organization’s data are critical for ensuring it is stored and 
used appropriately (whether for mundane tasks or breakthrough research). These same 
classifications also help to inform a reliable backup and restoration program — something that 
isn’t merely important for business continuity but is increasingly required by regulations.
Next steps: Finding a trusted partner
Given that data is central to both opportunities and risks, finding a trusted data protection 
partner is key — especially one that can offer robust and scalable data protection solutions 
tailored to your company’s needs.
Keepit is more than a data protection vendor. We deliver next-level SaaS data protection 
for your most business-critical applications and platforms. Importantly, our approach goes 
beyond providing tools — we collaborate with you to implement best practices, stay ahead of 
emerging threats, and continuously improve your data governance strategies.
By partnering with Keepit, your organization can confidently navigate the complexities of 
today’s evolving cybersecurity challenges and regulatory requirements with a modern solution 
that ensuring data is secure, compliant, and ready to support innovative business initiatives.
To learn more about how Keepit can support your data protection and cybersecurity needs, 
please visit us at keepit.com.
Conclusion

Resilience starts with
intelligent choices
Recover and restore
your SaaS data
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection 
platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing 
data in a vendor-independent cloud to safeguard 
essential business applications, boost cyber 
resilience, and future-proof data protection. 
Headquartered in Copenhagen with offices and data 
centers worldwide, more than 15,000 companies 
trust Keepit for its ease of use and effortless backup 
and recovery of cloud data.   
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved.
www.keepit.com
