Source URL: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/EN/Keepit-Leading-SaaS-Data-Security-eGuide-EN.pdf
Content type: PDF document
Title: unknown
Pages: 23
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Image
Raising the bar 
for data protection 
in the cloud era
Leading SaaS data security

﻿
Leading SaaS data security |  2
Image
Foreword.......................................................................................................... 3
Executive summary........................................................................................ 4
Introduction..................................................................................................... 5
Why Keepit built a dedicated cloud....................................................................... 6
True backup requires a separate logical infrastructure.............................................7
Gaining control and managing hidden risks............................................................ 9
Raising the bar for secure SaaS backups...............................................................10
Vendor-neutrality.................................................................................................11
Resilience and data immutability.......................................................................... 12
Secure, reliable and change-based long-term data storage.................................. 13
Unparalleled easy and fast data recovery............................................................. 15
Security standards, practices, and features.......................................................... 15
Physical security................................................................................................. 16
Operational security............................................................................................ 17
Software development life cycle......................................................................... 20
Security features................................................................................................. 21
Conclusions................................................................................................... 22
Index

﻿
Leading SaaS data security |  3
Information security has never been more 
important—or challenging—than it is today. 
There are growing threats from external 
actors and insiders, new systems and soft-
ware are being deployed faster and more 
frequently than ever before, the zero-trust 
model is leading to widespread changes in 
visibility and access control, and economic 
pressures demand that costs be reduced 
or avoided altogether.
At the same time, Chief Information Secu-
rity Officers (CISOs) also need to ensure 
appropriate data privacy and protection 
throughout the company’s entire tech 
stack.
These evolving demands exist in parallel 
to a paradigm shift in which a range of 
workloads—from customer-facing appli-
cations to business-critical operational 
systems—have migrated from on-prem-
ises appliances and servers to third-party 
cloud environments.
The cloud brings the agility and availability 
enterprises require, but it also introduces 
new challenges. Perhaps foremost among 
these issues, but one of the least-recog-
nized, is a shared data responsibility model 
and its important implications for business 
continuity planning, in general, and disas-
ter recovery specifically.
Keepit’s mission is to protect data in the 
cloud 
Since 2013, we have worked tirelessly to 
purpose-build an efficient and—above 
all—secure data protection solution that 
provides simple, reliable, cost-effective, 
and vendor-neutral backup and recovery 
for software-as-a-service (SaaS) work-
loads.
With deep roots and 20+ years of experi-
ence building best-in-class data protec-
tion and hosting services, we recognized 
that the only way to create such a solution 
was to architect it from the ground up—so 
that’s exactly what we did. The output of 
our efforts is The Keepit Cloud.
When presented with a new solution, 
it is only natural—and prudent—to ask 
questions. We understand, and we would 
expect no less from security professionals. 
Fortunately, we believe we have created 
the industry’s best SaaS data backup and 
recovery solution.
We believe in transparency, because it 
enables prospective buyers and technical 
evaluators to make informed decisions. 
Accordingly, we have prepared this doc-
ument to proactively address the most 
common inquiries about our solution, to 
explain what we built and why we made 
certain decisions, and—frankly—to show 
how our solution is fundamentally different 
from, and meaningfully superior to, other 
products in the market. 
We sincerely hope this guide answers your 
questions and we would greatly value the 
opportunity to respond to any that we may 
not have anticipated.
Happy reading,
Jakob Østergaard Hegelund
CTO at Keepit
Foreword

﻿
Leading SaaS data security |  4
Backing up cloud SaaS data is the re-
sponsibility of the SaaS customer, not the 
vendor. However, this reality is not yet well 
understood within the marketplace, and 
with that lack of understanding comes sig-
nificant risk:
In 2023, 65% of data breaches affected 
data hosted in public cloud or hybrid envi-
ronments.1
Similarly, many organizations have not yet 
recognized that backing up SaaS data 
within the same public cloud infrastructure 
that hosts their primary data fails to provide 
the needed assurances—since an event 
impacting that public cloud could render 
both the primary and backup data inacces-
sible, even with geographic distribution.
Only an infrastructure completely inde-
pendent from public cloud environments 
can provide true backup for SaaS data. This 
premise led us to build, from the ground 
up, The Keepit Cloud—a vendor-neutral 
and dedicated SaaS data backup solution 
that is resilient, secure, and exceptionally 
easy to use.
We architected the solution with a secu-
rity-first design, incorporating innovative 
features that meet the needs of even the 
most demanding enterprises, and we 
extend that same care to its physical and 
operational security. As an added benefit, 
constructing and managing our own infra-
structure also allows us to offer our backup 
service with a predictable, all-inclusive 
pricing structure.
Executive summary
1. Source: Cost of Data Breach Report 2024 [IBM]

﻿
Leading SaaS data security |  5
Introduction
As software-as-a-service (SaaS) applica-
tions enable modern businesses, critical 
services are migrating from the trusted 
confines of the on-premises computing 
facility to cloud providers, far away from 
traditional backup solutions.
This widespread and ongoing shift intro-
duces a shared model in which the SaaS 
provider and the SaaS customer—you—
each assume ownership of particular re-
sponsibilities with respect to data security 
(Figure 1).
While adoption of cloud services has 
soared—and accelerated by the COVID-19 
pandemic’s disruption2 —enterprises are 
only now beginning to understand the 
implications of shared data responsibility. 
According to Gartner®, "By 2028, 75% of 
enterprises will prioritize backup of SaaS 
applications as a critical requirements, 
compared to 15% in 2024".3
Figure 1—Division of responsibilities between the SaaS provider (left) 
and the SaaS customer (right)
Application
Hardware failure
Operation system
Software failure
Virtualisation
Natural disaster
Network
Physical intrusion
Hardware
Power outage
Saas Provider’s Responsibility
User
Human errors
Data
Programmatic errors
Administration
Malicious insiders
Viruses/malware
Ransomware attacks
Your data — your responsibility
2. For example, Microsoft Teams usage jumps 50 percent to 115 million daily active users [The Verge] 
3. Source: Gartner, Top Trends in Enterprise Backup and Recovery for 2024, By Chandra Mukhyala, Michael Hoeck, Jason Donham, Rene Rodriguez, Stanton Cole, 1 April 2024. 
GARTNER is a registered trademark and service mark of Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and internationally and is used herein with permission. All rights reserved.
Unfortunately, many enterprises will learn 
the hard way that relying on their SaaS 
provider to keep their data safe is a risky 
proposition: in 2023, 65% of data breach-
es affected data stored in public cloud or 
hybrid environments.
To help enterprises avoid disruption due 
to lost SaaS data, Keepit has architected 
a dedicated, vendor-neutral SaaS data 
backup solution that is resilient, secure, 
and easy to use—and that’s provided with a 
predictable, all-inclusive pricing structure.
In this guide, we will explain how this 
dedicated cloud raises the bar for secure 
backup and we will present some of the 
security standards, practices, and features 
that protect your data.
But before we get to those topics, we’ll 
start by explaining why we built our own 
dedicated data protection cloud in the first 
place.

﻿
Leading SaaS data security |  6
Key Takeaways:
•	 Because backing up SaaS data in the public 
cloud comes with significant security com-
promises (and introduces hidden risks), Keepit 
operates our own data center regions, running 
on our own hardware, managed by our own 
people. 
•	 Once a customer chooses a Keepit region for 
backup, their data never leaves that region. 
•	 Building our own cloud allows Keepit to man-
age supply chain risks and provides tremen-
dous control over costs, which enables us to 
offer simple and predictable “all-in” pricing
The 3-2-1 principle of backup (Figure 2) 
mandates that you must have one copy 
of your data off site. In the days of tape 
backup, where fire and theft were the only 
credible threats to your backup data, the 
off-site copy effectively ensured that your 
backup data would survive any calamity 
that could befall your primary data and 
your primary site.
In the cloud age, however, backups have 
become much more complicated: geo-
graphic dispersal is insufficient to ensure 
your data is secure, and hidden risks are 
introduced by relying on clouds that may 
be taken offline to protect the providers’ 
primary business interests.
Figure 2—The time-tested 3-2-1 principle of data backup
3
Copies of data
(1 primary and 2 backups) 2
Copies stored
(At separate locations)
1
Off-site storage
(Secure private cloud)
Why Keepit built a dedicated cloud

﻿
Leading SaaS data security |  7
True backup requires 
a separate logical 
infrastructure
While the requirement for separate backup 
infrastructure may seem self-evident to 
many IT and security professionals, most 
alternative cloud backup solutions will read-
ily store your backup directly on the same 
cloud infrastructure that hosts your primary 
data—introducing unnecessary risk and 
really stretching the meaning of “backup.” 
You can choose to store your backup data in 
the public cloud, and you can even specify 
a data center location that is separate from 
your primary data—but in no way does this 
approach provide the assurances that you 
need, because all your data (now including 
your only backups!) is managed under the 
same administrative infrastructure. ▶

﻿
Leading SaaS data security |  8
Consequently, if that infrastructure is com-
promised, then both your primary data and 
your backups are at risk, no matter if they 
reside on servers in different parts of the 
country or even on different continents.
In our view, offering “true backup” means 
guaranteeing to our customers that their 
backup data doesn’t reside on the same 
logical infrastructure as their primary data, 
regardless of which combination of prima-
ry workloads are being protected.
“True backup requires a 
logical infrastructure separate 
from the primary data”
To ensure that your backups are never 
stored on the same cloud infrastructure 
that hosts your primary data (e.g., Ama-
zon Web Services, Microsoft Azure, etc.), 
Keepit does not run on public cloud infra-
structure; instead, The Keepit Cloud:
•	 runs in our own data center regions
•	 operates on our own hardware 
•	 is managed by our own people
To ensure data sovereignty, once a cus-
tomer chooses a Keepit region for backup, 
their data never leaves that region. Not 
only does Keepit guarantee that backup 
data will always go to that region, but no 
processes exist that even could transfer 
backup data out of that region (aside from 
customer initiated restores and down-
loads, of course). ■
Americas
USA, Washington, D.C.
Canada, Toronto
EU
Denmark, Copenhagen
Germany, Frankfurt
EMEA
UK, London
Switzerland, Zurich
APAC
Australia, Sydney
Figure 3: The Keepit Cloud spans the globe with seven locations, each of which has two data centers

﻿
Leading SaaS data security |  9
Gaining control 
and managing 
hidden risks
Aside from the fact that a dedicated pri-
vate cloud is a fundamental requirement 
of any legitimate backup solution, building 
our own cloud gives Keepit a higher de-
gree of control over both the supply chain 
and costs, with considerable benefits for 
our customers.
Additionally, this strategy showed an un-
anticipated—but vital—benefit when the 
COVID-19 pandemic struck. To protect 
their own primary businesses, many public 
cloud vendors shut down customer work-
loads, forcing thousands of those custom-
ers offline. All the while, Keepit’s dedicated 
private cloud continued normal operation.
Passing along the benefits
Why Keepit customers don’t worry about 
deduplication, compression, and storage
We want to make it simple for you to be-
come (and to happily remain) our customer. 
Fortunately, building our own dedicated 
private cloud provides advantages for 
Keepit that translate into benefits for our 
customers.
For example, the Keepit licensing model is 
simple: There are no complicated API trans-
action fees, network egress or ingress fees, 
or even storage consumption fees. That’s 
right, storage is included—Keepit custom-
ers don’t need to worry about deduplica-
tion capabilities or compression ratios!
We can offer simple and predictable pricing 
because we retain the freedom to innovate 
and to evolve the storage technology be-
hind the scenes—something that would not 
be possible if we were using a public cloud. 
Since customers and partners are not 
sensitive to the cost structures around the 
underlying storage, we can continue to 
improve our systems regardless of how this 
will affect byte-for-byte consumption on 
whatever storage media the future brings.
There will continue to be some demand for 
BYOS (Bring Your Own Storage) business 
models in which the customer effectively 
pays twice: once for the backup service 
and once more for the public cloud storage 
onto which the backup data is subsequently 
copied. However, this approach is funda-
mentally at odds with our philosophy that 
true backups cannot be stored on the same 
cloud as the primary data; therefore, BYOS 
is not a model we have chosen to pursue.

﻿
Leading SaaS data security |  10
Key Takeaways:
•	 Keepit’s backup service is vendor neutral and 
already supports major SaaS application pro-
viders. 
•	 Resilience and data immutability are achieved 
through immediate encryption of backup data, 
30-day delete retention, data region sover-
eignty and dual data center redundancy, and a 
unique, tamper-proof infrastructure. 
•	 A blockchain-like Merkle tree architecture and 
innovative “incremental forever” data transfer 
ensure secure, reliable and change-based 
long-term data storage. 
•	 Restoring from a backup is quick and easy: 
simply browse and search through time and 
space, then click to restore once you find what 
you lost with our multiple restore options.
When designing and building The Keepit 
Cloud, we aspired to provide a number of 
important fundamental features and char-
acteristics, including:
•	Vendor-neutrality
•	Resilience and data immutability
•	Secure, reliable and change-based 
long-term data storage
•	Easy and fast data recovery unparalleled 
in the industry
•	The following subsections describe 
these in detail.
Raising the bar for secure SaaS backups

﻿
Leading SaaS data security |  11
Four copies
Figure 4—The Keepit Cloud is 
completely vendor agnostic
Fully secure and encrypted
2 copies sent to
Data center A
Automated daily 
backup 
Blockchain-verified 
technology
Fast and easy 
recovery
Data center B
2 copies sent to
Vendor-neutrality
Today’s enterprises rely on a growing list 
of SaaS applications and providers, head-
lined by Microsoft Office 365 and Dynam-
ics 365, Google Workspace (formerly G 
Suite), and Salesforce. It is imperative that 
any practical SaaS data backup solution 
support these services, otherwise clients 
will be burdened with the extra overhead, 
complexity, and potential risk that comes 
with maintaining multiple backup systems.
Moreover, the SaaS vendor ecosystem is 
always expanding. Accordingly, The Keepit 
Cloud is completely vendor agnostic, 
meaning there is no technical reason why 
support for a particular SaaS application 
provider cannot be introduced in addition 
to the major vendors already integrated 
into the platform (Figure 4).

﻿
Leading SaaS data security |  12
Assuming physical security is adequate, 
no threat actor can erase the data stored 
on an offline tape. In the cloud, however, 
everything is always online and expecta-
tions for ease of use dictate a high degree 
of accessibility.
To ensure security while maintaining con-
venience, Keepit combines several protec-
tive measures (Table 1).
Protective measure
Benefits
Immediate encryption
Upon ingestion by the Keepit platform, backup data is immediately encrypted before it is written 
to storage media. This process employs industry best practice algorithms believed to offer 
unbreakable security for at least the next 30 years. 
30-day delete lock
There is no simple way to immediately delete your data in Keepit: you, or the attacker who has 
successfully taken over your identity, will have to wait for 30 days for datasets to be deleted or for 
accounts to be closed.
This deliberate delay is the first line of defense against user error, insider threats, and ransomware 
attacks that target backups.4 
Data region sovereignty 
and dual data center 
redundancy
To comply with data sovereignty requirements and desires for geographical dispersal of information 
assets, Keepit offers multiple regions around the world. Once your data enters a given Keepit region, 
your data stays in that region - forever.
To provide protection from the most common disasters such as fire, power or cooling system 
outages—or other events that can render a building or complex of buildings unusable—all data is 
copied into two separate data center facilities within the chosen region. 
Unique, tamper-proof 
infrastructure
The Keepit infrastructure runs on software that was designed and built from the ground up by our 
team. This proprietary storage infrastructure allows us to provide fast and reliable backup at a 
reasonable cost, and supports the data immutability that protects backup datasets—like the backup 
tapes of yesteryear, our disk-based storage systems do not offer a mechanism for modifying backup 
data.
This core characteristic means that even in a nightmare scenario—e.g., administrative accounts are 
compromised, primary data is corrupted or encrypted, attackers gain access to your backups—there 
is no way for the system to comply with an attacker’s efforts to tamper with your backup. 
4. Many ransomware families are adept at targeting backups. A recent study found that 94% of 
organizations hit by ransomware said the cybercriminals attempted to compromise their backup, 
showing just how much backup and security products are under attack. [Sophos]
Table 1—These protective measures ensure security without limiting convenience
Resilience and 
data immutability

﻿
Leading SaaS data security |  13
Architectural element
Benefits
Merkle Tree architecture
The Keepit information architecture is inspired by the Merkle tree structure that gained renown from 
blockchain systems such as Bitcoin and the ‘git’ version control system.
In addition to providing benefits including strong consistency checks, this design also allows us to 
represent and access backup sets over time—completely removing the antiquated model of ‘full’ and 
‘incremental’ backups, along with all the overhead associated with that legacy approach. 
“Incremental forever” data 
transfer
In the Keepit data model, when a backup executes, we effectively only transfer the differences in your 
dataset; however, when you view your data in the Keepit platform, all access is instant across time and 
space, and every single backup—no matter how old—appears as if it was a standalone full copy of 
your dataset at the time it was taken. 
 
We have even gone a step further: by designing, completely from scratch, an object storage 
architecture for this information model, we are able to store backup data very efficiently on simple 
high-density hard drive-based storage systems, which simplifies our supply chain and lowers both 
the risk and the price point for our customers. 
Secure, reliable and 
change-based long-
term data storage
We designed the Keepit platform for the 
specific purpose of providing secure and 
reliable long-term storage for SaaS backup 
data. In pursuit of this objective, we created 
a uniquely powerful information architecture 
(Table 2) that employs a Merkle tree struc-
ture and an innovative “incremental forever” 
approach to deliver performance and cost 
benefits that would simply not be possible 
on general-purpose storage services.
Table 2—By rethinking information architecture, the Keepit platform provides secure and reliable long-
term backup with unmatched performance

﻿
Leading SaaS data security |  14
Day 0 
Initial backup
H7712 Hash root
•	
We make the initial 
backup, including the 
files, notes, and budget.
•	
The files get structured 
in a Merkle tree, 
including hashes.
•	
A hash is a unique 
identifier for a particular 
subset of data.
•	
Notes is updated and is 
given a new hash.
•	
The hash root has also 
changed.
•	
The budget remains the 
same, as it has not been 
modified.
•	
No data changes - hash 
root remains the same.
Hash number
H4223
H8892
H7770
H8892
H7770
H8892
Day 1 
Data changes
H3281
Day 2 
No changes
H3281
Budget.xlsx
H8892
H4223
Notes.docx
H4223
Budget.xlsx
H7770
H4223
H8892
Notes.docx
H7770
Budget.xlsx
H8892
Notes.docx
Figure 5 —The Merkle Tree architecture
Updated

﻿
Leading SaaS data security |  15
Unparalleled easy and 
fast data recovery
What good is reliable backup if you can’t 
find what you’re looking for, or if it takes 
days or weeks to recover your data?
With Keepit, all data is instantly accessible. 
To restore from a backup, simply search 
for or browse to the data you need and 
click “Restore.” All your data with all your 
history is readily available for you in a mod-
ern web-based user interface that offers 
not only live browsing but also provides 
previews, downloads, and restores of your 
data elements.
And that’s it—there are no extra steps. 
You browse and search through time and 
space, and you click the button once you 
find what you’ve lost. The efficiency of the 
restore process is unparalleled in the  
market.
Security standards, 
practices, and features
Key takeaways:
•	 All data center facilities employed by Keepit 
conform to a high physical security baseline 
and hold ISO 27001 certification plus comple-
mentary certifications (e.g., SOC-2, ISAE 3402, 
PCI/DSS, HIPAA) 
•	 Technical and organizational measures are in 
place to ensure operational security. Keepit 
demonstrates its dedication and ability to 
deliver best-in-class security technology to its 
customers by holding the ISO/IEC 27001:2013 
certification and the ISAE 3402-II certification. 
These certifications are documentation that 
our entire organization has been audited and 
is certified: Not just our data centers, but the 
services, the technology, business continuity, 
operations, disaster recovery, sales, and legal. 
And in all of our locations. 
•	 Mature software development lifecycle pro-
cesses ensure that security is incorporated 
from the inception of a new project and contin-
ued throughout the entire life of the system 
•	 To enhance protection of customer data, the 
Keepit platform incorporates TLS transport se-
curity and secure, logged access controls; the 
recommended best practice for deployment 
uses the customer’s existing authentication 
infrastructure by means of SAML integration
Providing secure backup demands more 
than just a secure platform design. Securi-
ty extends to the physical and operational 
aspects of the platform and must be 
ingrained in the software development 
lifecycle.
Figure 6 — Easily find the right data with our Smart Search and restore across time with a few clicks

﻿
Leading SaaS data security |  16
Physical security
As noted in Table 1, once backup data 
reaches the Keepit platform, it is immedi-
ately copied into systems in two separate 
data centers within the designated region. 
This practice provides resilience in case a 
facility is permanently lost (e.g., to fire or a 
natural disaster) and also ensures contin-
uous availability of data in case of a more 
benign facility problem (e.g., temporary 
failure of power or cooling systems).
In every region, the Keepit platform oper-
ates in active-active mode between the 
two data centers. This model:
•	 Allows the platform to continue virtually un-
interrupted in the unlikely scenario that a full 
building is incapacitated
•	 Provides system-level redundancy, allowing 
the platform to continue servicing customers 
in case any single system is lost or needs to be 
taken offline for service, upgrades, mainte-
nance, or repairs
This system-level redundancy is comple-
mented by significant component-level 
redundancy on the individual servers that 
host the Keepit platform. Components 
that most commonly fail on modern serv-
ers (e.g., cooling fans, power supplies 
and spinning disks) can typically be hot 
swapped without even powering down the 
system holding the failed component.
Figure 7 - Each region has dual data centers which 
typically holds the above certifications.
While there are some local differences be-
tween the regions 5, all data center facilities 
employed by Keepit must conform to a 
physical security baseline that:
•	 Ensures high availability
•	 Restricts access to the physical systems that 
constitute the Keepit platform
Physical security at a facility can feature 
a combination of multi-factor authenti-
cation including biometric identification 
for facility access, controlled access with 
man traps, CCTV monitoring of the facility 
and facility perimeter, plus onsite security 
staff. Typically, the processing facilities will 
hold an ISO 27001 certification and several 
complementary certifications such as 
SOC-2, ISAE 3402, PCI/DSS, HIPAA etc.
When providing large-scale storage, failure 
of storage media is a regular and undra-
matic event. Failed storage media is never 
sent back to the media vendor for analysis; 
instead, it is kept onsite for physical disin-
tegration (mechanical shredding) before 
being disposed of, upholding Keepit’s 
commitment that customer data never 
leaves its designated region.
Additionally, and as noted previously, cus-
tomer backup data is encrypted before it is 
written to storage media. Therefore, even in 
the most unlikely event that a storage de-
vice is stolen from a processing facility, any 
data on the media remains inaccessible.
5.  Please consult your Keepit sales representative for details

﻿
Leading SaaS data security |  17
When it comes to backup and recovery, 
businesses seeking solutions need to be 
incredibly thorough in their due diligence 
processes. The Keepit service holds the 
ISO 27001:2013 certification and the ISAE 
3402-II certification.
End-to-end ISO/IEC 27001:2013  
certification:
By achieving the ISO/IEC 27001:2013 certi-
fication, Keepit continues to demonstrate 
its dedication and ability to deliver best-in-
class security technology to its customers. 
The certificate states that:
“[Keepit] operates an Information Security 
Management system which complies 
with the requirements of the ISO/IEC 
27001:2013 for the following scope:
The ISMS scope includes development, 
operations, and maintenance of services 
that support the company’s business & 
B2B SaaS Backup Solutions System, in 
accordance with the ISMS Statement 
of Applicability V.20220120.”
The scope of what we have done is very 
ambitious: It is not standard to include the 
entire organization. With the breadth of this 
certificate, our customers can rest assured 
that all processes within our organization 
live up to the highest international security 
standards.
Benefits of Keepit’s ISO/IEC 27001:2013 
certification include:
•	 A systematic, verified approach to information 
security that results in superior customer data 
protection 
•	 Ongoing performance evaluations and internal 
audits that ensure Keepit continues to meet the 
requirements of the ISO/IEC 27001 standard 
•	 Continued improvement of business continuity 
management and disaster recovery plans 
•	 Risk, vulnerability, and security incident man-
agement practices that enhance overall infor-
mation technology (IT) operations security 
•	 Compliance with current and future legal and 
regulatory requirements
ISAE 3402-II certification:
Keepit holds the ISAE 3402-II certification 
and is audited by Deloitte on Service Or-
ganizational Controls annually. In addition 
to the conditions required by ISAE 3402-II 
certification, Keepit has implemented a 
number of operational security measures 
(Table 3). ▶
Operational security

﻿
Leading SaaS data security |  18
Operational security measure
Explanation
Automation
The Keepit service is fully automated, operating based on the instructions (i.e., the configuration) provided by the 
customer. Therefore, no human operators outside of the customer’s own organization are involved in accessing, 
reviewing, or otherwise processing actual customer data. 
Restricted access
The Keepit platform itself is regularly updated as part of the ongoing maintenance and evolution of our service. 
However, there are no recurring or routine tasks that require human operators to access customer data. Furthermore, 
there are technical measures in place to ensure that no such access is required and that it is not easily or accidentally 
invoked. Additionally, there are organizational measures in place to educate and train staff on information security 
practices and policies. 
Regional support
If a customer needs assistance—and in the rare event that this assistance involves access to actual customer backup 
data—the Keepit support organization will work with the customer to ensure that such requests are served by support 
staff in an appropriate region, considering data sovereignty requirements, support availability, and time constraints. 
Third-party security assessments
Not only do we employ external auditors for security assessments, we also subject our platform to regular penetration 
testing conducted by third-party security and risk management specialists. This process replicates the tactics threat 
actors employ to gain Initial Access6, and extends beyond simple automated security scanners (which we also employ, 
of course). 
No subprocessors
Keepit has no subprocessors in connection with the provision of the Keepit Services. We adhere to the strictest data 
protection standards and ensure that no one else will be accessing or handling your data. This guarantees compliance 
with local regulations and that your data will always be handled with the highest level of sensitivity. 
Table 3—Keepit employs a number 
of operational security measures
6.  See Initial Access within the MITRE ATT&CK Framework [MITRE]

﻿
Leading SaaS data security |  19
Operational concern
Explanation
Physical operational health
We measure tens of thousands of datapoints every minute, aggregating them and making them instantly available to our 
operational staff, thereby ensuring efficient investigation and mitigation to meet our high uptime guarantees.
System and data center performance is continuously compared to baseline thresholds, while our health monitoring 
system monitors the physical equipment (e.g., environmental, network, hardware, operating systems and services) with 
30-second granularity, alerting on a range of unwanted situations (e.g., high temperatures in our data centers, failing disks 
in storage systems, congested network connections that threaten to impede ingress and egress, etc.) 
Software stack health
Our Real-Time High-Frequency Event Monitoring (RTHFEM) system provides platform-specific deep stack insights on 
software components and their operational health. 
 
Our operations team has different dashboards and areas of interest they follow and monitor, and live metrics can even 
be shared across organizational groups to provide developers with real-world insights into how their code performs in 
production. 
 
The RTHFEM system provides insights into data ingress rates from different SaaS vendors and quickly identifies problems, 
should they arise within the software stack. Our backend engineers also use this system to troubleshoot specific 
customer-related situations based on anonymized views of the interoperability of each customer’s connectors, data 
estate, and index. 
 
Additionally, detailed insights into software processes can assist with determining if an SLA is at risk or if an anomaly might 
be an indicator of malicious activity. 
Table 4—Operational insights provide our team with timely feedback, visibility, and alerts
Operational insights
To ensure reliable around-the-clock op-
eration, we closely monitor our production 
systems’ physical operational health and 
software stack health (Table 4).
Looking for the current status and change history?  
Visit status.keepit.com to view and subscribe to updates.

﻿
Leading SaaS data security |  20
Software development life cycle
Keepit is dedicated to providing best-in-
class solutions for cloud-to-cloud backup 
and data management. For us to make 
good on our promises, we are actively 
developing our platform in the pursuit of 
continuous improvement. Our software 
development lifecycle processes (Figure 
8) ensure that security is incorporated from 
the inception of a new project and contin-
ued throughout the entire life of the sys-
tem; these mature processes have been 
refined over the lifespan of the company, 
but we continue to invest in their ongoing 
evolution.
Strong processes are a necessity for the 
secure development of new functionality 
on the Keepit platform. While information 
sharing is vital in any growing organization, 
segregation of duties is also an essential 
part of the actual execution of devel-
opment, qualification, and—ultimate-
ly—deployment of software. We employ 
a number of technical and organizational 
measures to ensure that only the software 
approved by our Quality Assurance team 
goes to production. By enforcing signif-
icant workflow around “simple things” 
like software deployment, we ensure that 
we have a high degree of confidence 
in any and all software that is deployed 
to production and, in case a problem is 
discovered, that we are able to roll back a 
deployment or deploy hot fixes efficiently 
(once qualified).
Software lifecycle
Overall service level
agreement 99.9% uptime
Continuous
capacity planning
Real-time
instrumentation of stack
Software
development
• Every developer has 
their own local 
development 
environment
• Extensive full stack test 
suite
• CI system (builds and 
tests)
• Developers have no 
access to production 
Quality
assurance
• Takes version upon 
feature completeness
• Structured test effort 
with risk management
• Owns test and staging 
environments
• Centralized release 
approval
IT
operation
• 24/7 dedicated OPS 
team
• Privileged access 
workstations
• Deploys version on order 
from QA
• Events can feed back to 
DEV and QA
Customer
support
• 24/7 dedicated OPS 
customer support
• Integrated support 
experience in-product 
for compliance 
• Can request access to 
customer portal
Figure 8—Keepit executes a mature and agile security-oriented 
software delivery methodology

﻿
Leading SaaS data security |  21
Security features
In addition to the measures already pre-
sented (e.g., regional lock-in, dual data 
center redundancy), the Keepit platform 
also incorporates a number of additional 
security features to enhance protection of 
customer data. Two of the most important 
to govern are transport security and access 
control (Table 5).
Security feature
Explanation
TLS transport security
TLS transport security 
All primary workloads supported by Keepit employ modern Transport Layer Security (TLS) encryption on the endpoints used 
by Keepit and customers to access data. Both the Keepit Web UI and mobile app require the use of TLS. These communication 
protocols are designed to provide safe transport of data over insecure networks such as open Wi-Fi or broadband internet 
connections. 
 
Network security 
Additionally, to ensure a short path and the fastest possible data exchange with the primary customer data clouds for backup 
and restoration, Keepit connects directly to major internet exchanges. 
Secure and logged 
access controls
Single sign-on 
Keepit’s recommended best practice for deployment uses the customer’s existing authentication infrastructure (such as AD/
ADFS, Okta, etc.) by means of SAML integration. This approach allows customers to leverage the identity security measures they 
already have in place (e.g., multi-factor authentication). 
 
Fine-grained role-based access control 
Inside Keepit, an elaborate access control list (ACL) and role-based access control (RBAC) system allow fine-grained control 
over which identities can perform which operations on the customer tenant. For example, pre-defined policies permit an 
administrative role to manage the backup and a support role that can only restore data in place (as part of an internal IT support 
role) and cannot download or otherwise exfiltrate data from the platform. 
 
Additionally, separate groups of administrators can manage separate backup configurations; for example, one group can 
manage the Salesforce or Dynamics 365 backup while another manages the Microsoft Office 365 or Google Workspace 
backup. 
 
Immutable system audit log 
Finally, an audit trail is maintained for the duration of the customer engagement. The audit log can be viewed directly in the web 
application by authorized administrators and it can be accessed via the API for integration into third-party log analysis solutions. 
Data can also be pushed to Splunk, Sentinel or other third-party SIEM systems. 
Table 5—Security features provide additional protection for data in transit and at rest

﻿
Leading SaaS data security |  22
Conclusions
With increasing numbers of business- 
critical SaaS applications migrating to the 
cloud, and in a world in which new threats 
arise daily, continuity planning demands 
a secure SaaS data backup solution—and 
the SaaS vendors are clear that backups 
are your responsibility, not theirs.
The question then becomes: where to 
back up this critical data?
Keepit believes that real backup requires 
a separate logical infrastructure from the 
cloud in which the primary data is hosted. 
The most practical solution, then, is a dedi-
cated cloud platform.
But simply having a dedicated platform is 
not enough: the platform must be secure. 
However, security is not something that 
can be bolted on as an afterthought—it 
needs to be designed into the very es-
sence of a system. This secure-by-design 
philosophy guided the creation of The 
Keepit Cloud, which was architected from 
the ground up by information security and 
hosting experts to provide secure backup 
of SaaS data:
•	 Resilience and data immutability are achieved 
through immediate encryption of backup 
data, 30-day delete retention, data region 
sovereignty and dual data center redundancy, 
and a unique, tamper-proof infrastructure with 
immutability by default
•	 A blockchain-like Merkle tree architecture and 
innovative “incremental forever” data transfer 
ensure secure, reliable, and change-based 
long-term data storage
•	 All data center facilities employed by Keepit 
conform to a high physical security baseline 
and hold ISO 27001 certification plus comple-
mentary certifications (e.g., SOC-2, ISAE 3402, 
PCI/DSS, HIPAA)
•	 Technical and organizational measures are in 
place to ensure operational security, including 
a high degree of automation, comprehensive 
staff training, third-party security audits, 
proactive penetration testing, and detailed 
operational monitoring of the health of physical 
infrastructure and the software stack
•	 Mature software development lifecycle pro-
cesses ensure that security is incorporated 
from the inception of a new project and contin-
ued throughout the entire life of the system
•	 To enhance protection of customer data, the 
Keepit platform incorporates TLS transport 
security and secure, logged access controls
These characteristics and others combine 
to form a SaaS data backup solution that 
is fundamentally different from and—we 
sincerely believe—superior to other prod-
ucts in the market, and that provides you 
with the benefits of offsite storage and the 
comforting knowledge that if your primary 
cloud is compromised, your backup is safe 
and secure elsewhere.
If you would like to know more about our
solution, please visit our website at
keepit.com or talk to us directly to find out 
how we can support you.
“SaaS vendors are clear 
that backups are your 
responsibility, not theirs.”
Start a conversation with us here

﻿
Leading SaaS data security |  23
 
Keepit future proof
Take the next step toward 
protecting your SaaS data
Keepit provides next-level SaaS data 
protection purpose-built for the cloud, by 
securing data in a vendor-independent 
cloud to safeguard essential business 
applications, boost cyber resilience and 
future-proof data protection.
Headquartered in Copenhagen with  
offices and data centers worldwide, over 
ten thousand companies trust Keepit for 
its ease of use and effortless backup and 
recovery of cloud data.   
Request a demo
© 2024 Keepit. All rights reserved.
www.keepit.com
HQ - Copenhagen
Denmark
Keepit A/S
Per Henrik Lings Allé 4, 7.
2100 København, Denmark
CVR: 30806883
+45 8987 7792
Dallas, Texas
United States
Keepit USA Inc.
3232 McKinney Avenue Suite 
820 Dallas TX 75204, USA
TIN: 85-358 6335
+1 469-461-4892
London
United Kingdom
Keepit Technologies UK, LTD.
Warnford Court
29, Throgmorton Street
London EC2N 2AT, UK
Company reg. no.: 13785045
Munich
Germany
Keepit Germany GmbH
Maximiliansplatz 22
D-80333 München
Amtsgericht München
HRB 270094
Geschäftsführer  
Morten Felsvang
