Source URL: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/EN/ESG-Technical-Validation-Keepit.pdf
Content type: PDF document
Title: unknown
Pages: 12
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

© 2024 TechTarget, Inc. All Rights Reserved.                  
Technical Validation: Keepit 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Technical Validation from Enterprise Strategy Group was commissioned by Keepit 
and is distributed under license from TechTarget, Inc.  
T E C H N I C A L V A L I D A T I O N 
Keepit 
Simplifying Comprehensive Backup and Security 
for Data of SaaS Applications 
By Alex Arcilla, Principal Analyst – Validation Services                                           
Enterprise Strategy Group 
June 2025

2 
Technical Validation: Keepit 
Contents 
Introduction ..................................................................................................................................................................... 3 
Background ................................................................................................................................................................ 3 
Keepit .......................................................................................................................................................................... 4 
Enterprise Strategy Group Technical Validation ............................................................................................................ 5 
Simplifying the Backup Process ................................................................................................................................. 5 
Accessing Data Without Incurring Risk ...................................................................................................................... 8 
Ensuring Restoration of Clean Data ........................................................................................................................ 10 
Conclusion .................................................................................................................................................................... 12

3 
Technical Validation: Keepit 
Introduction 
This Technical Validation from Enterprise Strategy Group evaluates Keepit, a data protection platform for business-
critical SaaS applications such as Salesforce, Microsoft 365, Microsoft Entra ID, and Google Workspace. We 
specifically review how Keepit can greatly simplify the way organizations protect the valuable data used in SaaS 
applications that support business operations.   
Background 
It is common for companies to use SaaS applications to complete work ranging from essential business functions 
(e.g., email, documentation) to problem resolution (e.g., trouble ticketing), customer relationship management, and 
business intelligence. Should any event occur that disrupts these operations, organizations need to recover as 
quickly as possible or risk unwanted downtime. However, a successful recovery is not only defined by how quickly 
the application is up and running again but also whether the integrity of the application’s data remains intact. 
Organizations continuously encounter issues that affect how they can keep their data intact, whether due to 
cyberattacks (such as ransomware), human error, insider threats, or outages experienced by SaaS providers. To 
handle these issues, data protection has emerged as a more prominent challenge for organizations to address. In 
fact, Enterprise Strategy Group research found that 56% of respondents are increasing their data protection 
investments relative to 2024 spending, up from 48% from last year (see Figure 1).1  
Figure 1. Over 50% of Organizations Will Increase Spending on Data Protection 
Source: Enterprise Strategy Group, now part of Omdia 
Addressing data protection is especially important when dealing with SaaS applications. Under the shared 
responsibility model, the cloud service provider is responsible for the availability and security of their applications, 
clouds, and the underlying infrastructure. Yet, these providers are not responsible for recovering any data lost, 
accidentally deleted, or corrupted. That responsibility lies with the organizations licensing the SaaS applications. 
 
1 Source: Enterprise Strategy Group Research Report, 2025 Technology Spending Intentions Survey, December 2024. 
56%
56%
59%
59%
72%
36%
42%
35%
38%
26%
8%
2%
5%
3%
2%
Public cloud applications (i.e., SaaS) (N=326)
Data protection (N=444)
Application and software development (N=419)
Customer experience (N=322)
Cybersecurity (N=603)
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
To what extent will your organization’s 2025 spending for each technology 
change, if at all, relative to actual (or projected actual) 2024 spending? 
(Percent of respondents)
2025 spending will increase
2025 spending will stay flat
2025 spending will decrease

4 
Technical Validation: Keepit 
Keepit 
The Keepit platform was designed to offer independent and dedicated cloud-native data protection for business-
critical SaaS workloads. This platform supports the most common SaaS applications, including Microsoft 365, 
Google Workspace, Salesforce, Microsoft Entra ID, Microsoft Azure DevOps, Microsoft Power Platform, Microsoft 
Dynamics 365, and Zendesk (see Figure 2). Keepit is currently working to expand coverage to additional 
productivity, collaboration, project management, and other business-critical SaaS applications. 
Figure 2. Keepit Platform 
 
 
 
Source: Enterprise Strategy Group, now part of Omdia 
The Keepit platform has been purpose-built to focus on SaaS data backup and recovery with security and cost-
effectiveness in mind. Unlike conventional backup solutions built on the public cloud, Keepit’s vendor-independent 
cloud is physically hosted in Equinix data centers in multiple regions throughout the world, isolating backup data 
from any service-disrupting event experienced by the cloud service provider in which the SaaS application 
operates. Keepit owns the security of these data centers. They are not shared, and Keepit does not use 
subcontractors. To enhance performance and security of data protection operations, Keepit data centers maintain 
direct network connections with SaaS providers. 
While the platform uses commodity servers (owned and operated by Keepit), the software technology stack is 
proprietary—OS, Web server, log server, indexing, and cataloguing functions. By not using any public cloud or third-
party technology services within the stack, Keepit can reduce the attack surface and, more importantly, the risk of 
service-impacting issues originating outside of Keepit. 
Keepit has also been designed to provide fast backup and recovery times. All backup data is stored on a large fleet 
of spinning disk, which provides both high throughput for sequential I/O and high simultaneous I/O operations per 
second (IOPS) at lower cost than flash. Additionally, all data is hot; organizations do not need to tier data for backup 
and recovery purposes.

5 
Technical Validation: Keepit 
To ensure that organizations can maintain the integrity of their backup data and enable clean restores, the Keepit 
platform employs blockchain technology—specifically, a Merkle tree structure—to verify data integrity. With the 
Merkle tree, Keepit automatically verifies each data block as it is read or written. Because each block has its own 
embedded cryptographic signature, the data is verified automatically; no one can alter or change the data in any 
backup. Deduplication is automatic because the Merkel tree eliminates writing the same data multiple times. 
The performance and cost efficiencies delivered by its platform architecture enable Keepit to charge a flat fee per 
seat, with unlimited storage and transmission, as opposed to charging according to the volume of backup data. 
Since it owns and develops the technology stack, Keepit can offer this flat fee rather than passing on costs of third 
parties incorporated into the platform. With this flat fee, organizations will not incur additional storage costs should 
the amount of backup data increase or transfer fees. Organizations also do not have to worry about costs for storing 
duplicate data, as deduplication is automatically provided. Costs for tiering data are also eliminated, as all data is 
hot. 
Keepit is also compliant in handling and securing data across industries, as the company has earned multiple 
certifications, such as HIPAA, NIST, and PCI, and is ISO 27001 certified for both its data centers and processes. 
Enterprise Strategy Group Technical Validation  
Enterprise Strategy Group validated how organizations can benefit from using the Keepit platform to back up and 
restore their SaaS application data. We focused on how Keepit simplifies backup of SaaS application data, access 
to backup data (without risking overwrites or accidental deletion), restoration, and maintenance of backup history. 
Simplifying the Backup Process 
Due to varying architectures and infrastructures used by cloud service providers to deliver their SaaS applications, 
backup processes can differ. Many organizations wrongly believe that because their data and applications are now 
delivered as a service, they will be automatically backed up and recovered. The reality is that this is just not the 
case. While the SaaS provider will protect its own infrastructure and data for the purposes of running its service, 
customer satisfaction, and compliance, etc., the end-user organization is always responsible for its data. Legacy 
tools and on-premises capabilities were not designed to offer data protection across on-premises and SaaS 
workloads, which can hinder their ability to recover quickly, easily, and effectively at a manageable cost. 
With Keepit, organizations experience a consistent workflow for backing up data, regardless of the application. 
Keepit has been designed to greatly simplify backup operations, saving both time and operational expenses. 
Enterprise Strategy Group Analysis 
Enterprise Strategy Group navigated to the Keepit UI and observed how to set up a connector, a key component in 
initiating the backup process for any supported SaaS application. These connectors are supported by the direct 
network connections Keepit maintains with supported SaaS providers. We began by adding a Microsoft 365 
connector (see Figure 3).

6 
Technical Validation: Keepit 
Figure 3. Setting Up Cloud Connectors With Specific SaaS Providers 
 
 
Source: Enterprise Strategy Group, now part of Omdia 
We were prompted to ensure that specific requirements were met—creating a backup account, assigning an 
administrator, assigning an existing SaaS license—before configuring the connection. Permissions for Keepit 
access to the specific resources and use of the application’s data were also requested (see Figure 4). 
Figure 4. Requirements and Permissions to Satisfy Before Network Connection Is Built 
 
 
 
 
Source: Enterprise Strategy Group, now part of Omdia 
Once the Microsoft 365 connector was created, we double-clicked on that connection to specify those applications 
and their specific user and group data for Keepit to back up (see Figure 5).

7 
Technical Validation: Keepit 
Figure 5. Configuring Backup for Specific Microsoft 365 Applications 
 
 
Source: Enterprise Strategy Group, now part of Omdia 
Selecting the Microsoft 365 application workloads to include was as simple as toggling the associated switches. We 
could also configure each application differently. For Microsoft Exchange, we selected data associated with all users 
in all groups and any users not in these groups. For OneDrive, we only selected the data associated with the 
“Keepers” group out of all available security groups to be included in backup operations. 
After initiating the backup of the selected Microsoft 365 applications, we monitored progress via the Job Monitor 
interface. A report indicated the completion of the backup operation (see Figure 6). 
Figure 6. Status of Backup for Microsoft 365 Applications 
 
 
Source: Enterprise Strategy Group, now part of Omdia

8 
Technical Validation: Keepit 
As we navigated these workflows, Enterprise Strategy Group observed that the prompts made it very easy to 
configure the connectors. Organizations no longer need to acquire additional skills and expertise for architecting 
and configuring a backup solution for SaaS data. Keepit has architected its platform so that establishing these 
connections can be done with a few clicks. 
Configuring Keepit to back up data associated with specific user groups of select applications was also 
straightforward. Enterprise Strategy Group found that organizations can eliminate the need to inventory all existing 
users of public SaaS applications, then manually select which users to include or exclude for backup. Keepit 
already presents options to select or deselect users before any backup occurs. 
Accessing Data Without Incurring Risk 
When needing to access specific data (e.g., a single email or document), guardrails are ideally in place to prevent 
accidental changes or deletions or opening potential doors for cyberattacks. With Keepit, data access can be 
completed without the need to search through all data associated with a specific application. Organizations can also 
access data without rehydration, as there is no tiering or fragmentation of data when backed up with Keepit. 
Enterprise Strategy Group Analysis 
To access a specific data set, Enterprise Strategy Group navigated to an existing connector, “Microsoft 365 
Backup.” We proceeded to select the application containing the data we wanted to examine. For our review, we 
chose OneDrive (see left of Figure 7). We could also choose specific files within OneDrive, if not wanting to access 
all the data. 
To access the data without risking its integrity, the platform provided us with the option to generate a public URL to 
view, print, or download the data (see right of Figure 7). We could also establish a password and expiration date for 
viewing the backup data. Those requesting view-only access would receive the URL via email. 
 
2 Ibid. 
Why This Matters 
Public SaaS applications continue to become more pervasive in corporate environments. In fact, Enterprise 
Strategy Group research found that 56% of organizations will increase their investment in public SaaS 
applications.2 Yet, the continued adoption of public SaaS highlights the challenges that organizations face in 
backing up the applications’ data in light of the shared responsibility model. Building and configuring in-house 
backup solutions for individual SaaS applications can be too difficult and time-consuming to justify 
undertaking such efforts. 
Enterprise Strategy Group validated that Keepit can simplify the backup process for a wide variety of public 
SaaS applications available in the market. We observed how this platform standardizes the workflow for 
backing up a public SaaS application, regardless of the cloud service provider or its underlying 
infrastructures. Time and effort for setting up the backup process is drastically reduced when compared to 
building out backup solutions for individual applications.

9 
Technical Validation: Keepit 
Figure 7. Viewing Backup Data of Microsoft OneDrive 
 
 
Source: Enterprise Strategy Group, now part of Omdia 
Keepit’s approach for access eliminated the need to directly interact with the data, thus preserving its integrity and 
security. The approach can also help to reduce the time and effort of exactly locating any data to be viewed and 
restored when desired. With this view-only access, specific data from the supported public SaaS applications could 
be recovered without needing to search through or restore all application data. 
 
 
 
Why This Matters 
Circumstances may warrant accessing a select data set residing within all backup data of a specific 
application. With traditional backup solutions, locating that data will most likely involve searching through all 
backup data and/or rehydrating data (if data has been tiered). This easily results in wasting time, effort, and, 
subsequently, money.    
Enterprise Strategy Group validated that the Keepit platform enables data access without the need to touch 
the actual backup data. We observed how organizations can search for select items without the need to 
touch the actual data. By using public URLs that point to the selected data, organizations can then view, 
download, or print. This approach to accessing data also helps with quickly recovering data without restoring 
entire backups.

10 
Technical Validation: Keepit 
Ensuring Restoration of Clean Data 
Restoring data from backup should ideally be done with clean data. With Keepit, the process for backing up data 
ensures that data integrity is preserved in all immutable snapshots. 
Enterprise Strategy Group Analysis 
To restore data from backup, Enterprise Strategy Group first navigated to the “Connectors” page and selected the 
“AzureAD” connector. After selecting “Policies,” we chose to view backup history associated with the policy named 
“Definition” (see Figure 8). For each backup, such as the one captured on May 6 at 5:20:49 PM, we could see how 
the code associated with this policy changed over time. We noted how maintaining this backup history establishes 
provenance, which is especially useful for audit and governance purposes. 
Figure 8. Viewing Backup History of “Definition” Policy 
 
 
 
Source: Enterprise Strategy Group, now part of Omdia 
Once selecting the backup to use, we clicked on “Restore.” A warning appeared to ensure that the end user knew 
what was to occur before confirming the action (see Figure 9).

11 
Technical Validation: Keepit 
Figure 9. Warning Issued Before Restore Occurs 
 
 
Source: Enterprise Strategy Group, now part of Omdia 
Given how Keepit established data provenance, Enterprise Strategy Group noted how the platform assures 
organizations that backups contain clean data. With Keepit’s approach to maintaining data integrity (via the use of 
the Merkle tree), restoring data does not incur business risk, ensuring that business operations continue without 
disruption. 
 
 
 
Why This Matters 
While organizations ideally want data restoration times to be as low as possible, any restoration is not 
successful if the backup data is not clean. Maintaining data integrity in backups is key in successfully 
restoring data and enabling normal business operations to continue. 
Enterprise Strategy Group validated that Keepit establishes data provenance throughout all created backups. 
We viewed how organizations can monitor and track changes made in data backups of any supported SaaS 
application over time. With the platform’s use of the Merkle tree, we noted that organizations can be confident 
that all created backups contain clean data, enabling effective data restoration as well as supporting audit 
and governance activities.

12 
Technical Validation: Keepit 
Conclusion 
Organizations face a wide variety of reasons that warrant data recovery, including cybersecurity events, system 
failure, malicious deletion, or accidental deletion.3 However, when it comes to public SaaS applications, 
organizations must remain aware of the shared responsibility model, which assigns the responsibility of backing up 
the application’s data to the customer. While organizations have the option to build data protection solutions, the 
drawback is having to tailor those solutions to each public SaaS application used, which might not be the best use 
of the limited time and resources they struggle to manage wisely. 
To simplify how organizations can protect the data of widely used public SaaS applications, organizations can opt to 
use Keepit. This cloud-native data protection platform has been designed for commonly used applications such as 
Microsoft 365, Google Workspace, and Salesforce. With Keepit’s vendor-independent cloud, organizations have 
secure and automated backup with easy recovery. The underlying platform architecture—use of commodity servers 
and spinning disk, proprietary software technology stack, no tiering of backup data—enables Keepit to offer a 
powerful combination: flat pricing with unlimited storage and no data transfer fees and instant availability to data 
when recovery is needed.  
Throughout our evaluation, Enterprise Strategy Group validated that Keepit can help organizations to: 
• 
Simplify backups by offering a consistent workflow across all supported SaaS applications. 
• 
Access and recover specific data while maintaining data integrity and security. 
• 
Facilitate quick restoration with assurances that data is clean, thus resuming normal operations without 
incident. 
Organizations continue to expand their use of public SaaS applications to support a number of everyday business 
operations. Protecting the data of these SaaS applications then becomes critical so that business continues without 
incident. If your organization is looking for a secure, integrated, and flexible end-to-end SaaS data protection 
solution that is both simple to use and cost-effective, Enterprise Strategy Group recommends you seriously 
consider the Keepit SaaS data protection platform. Visit Keepit to learn more. 
 
3 Source: Enterprise Strategy Group Research Report, Cloud Data Protection Strategies at a Crossroads, August 2023. 
 
 
3 Source: Enterprise Strategy Group Research Report, Cloud Data Protection Strategies at a Crossroads, August 2023. 
©2025 TechTarget, Inc. All rights reserved. The Informa TechTarget name and logo are subject to license. All other logos are trademarks of their respective owners. Informa TechTarget 
reserves the right to make changes in specifications and other information contained in this document without prior notice.  
Information contained in this publication has been obtained by sources Informa TechTarget considers to be reliable but is not warranted by Informa TechTarget. This publication may 
contain opinions of Informa TechTarget, which are subject to change. This publication may include forecasts, projections, and other predictive statements that represent Informa 
TechTarget’s assumptions and expectations in light of currently available information. These forecasts are based on industry trends and involve variables and uncertainties. 
Consequently, Informa TechTarget makes no warranty as to the accuracy of specific forecasts, projections or predictive statements contained herein.  
Any reproduction or redistribution of this publication, in whole or in part, whether in hard-copy format, electronically, or otherwise to persons not authorized to receive it, without the 
express consent of Informa TechTarget, is in violation of U.S. copyright law and will be subject to an action for civil damages and, if applicable, criminal prosecution. Should you have any 
questions, please contact Client Relations at cr@esg-global.com. 
 
About Enterprise Strategy Group  
Enterprise Strategy Group, now part of Omdia, provides focused and actionable market intelligence, demand-side research, analyst advisory 
services, GTM strategy guidance, solution validations, and custom content supporting enterprise technology buying and selling. 
www.esg-global.com 
contact@esg-global.com
