Source URL: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/EN/Keepit-DORA-factsheet.pdf
Content type: PDF document
Title: unknown
Pages: 3
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Keepit currently supports hundreds of 
financial institutions to fulfill complex 
compliance requirements related to data 
backup and recovery for SaaS applications. 
Effective from January 2025, the Digital 
Operational Resilience Act (DORA) marks a 
new phase in how financial institutions must 
approach cybersecurity and operational 
resilience, and Keepit is here to support you, 
and many more financial institutions, as you 
navigate this compliance journey.
One critical aspect of compliance under 
DORA is ensuring that institutions have robust 
backup procedures in place for critical 
services that are essential for maintaining 
business operations. Article 12 in DORA 
outlines requirements for backup and recovery 
policies, procedures and methods. Read on 
to find out how they align with Keepit’s core 
benefits and how we can help you comply.
What DORA requires you to do for 
backup — and how Keepit stacks up
How Keepit helps you 
comply with DORA

DORA requirement 
How Keepit can help
Article 12.2 — The requirement for backup and 
regular testing 
“Financial entities shall set up backup systems that 
can be activated in accordance with the backup 
policies and procedures, as well as restoration and 
recovery procedures and methods. Testing of the 
backup procedures and restoration and recovery 
procedures and methods shall be undertaken 
periodically.” 
Commitment to compliance 
•	
As a European-born provider, Keepit is well-versed 
in the intricacies of EU regulations including NIS2, 
DORA, and GDPR and offers detailed compliance 
documentation. 
•	
With our efficient auditing and reporting, you can 
document the effectiveness of backup processes 
and prove that regular testing has occurred.
Article 12.3 — The requirement for segregated 
backup systems 
“When restoring backup data using own 
systems, financial entities shall use ICT systems that 
are physically and logically segregated from the 
source ICT system.”
Independent cloud operations 
•	
Keepit’s unique architecture gives our customers 
a fundamental edge with storage of backup data 
in two separate, mirrored locations logically 
segregated from the production environment.  
•	
To prevent data interruption and ensure high 
availability, backed-up data is fully isolated from 
SaaS vendors’ cloud, whether Azure, AWS, G Cloud, 
or something else.  
•	
We own our own data centers in 7 regions and 
have complete control of our technology stack. 
This means no use of any hyperscaler or cloud 
infrastructure. Our cloud is operated from within the 
EU, we have no data sub processor, and we are fully 
Schrems 2 compliant.
“The ICT systems shall be securely protected from 
any unauthorized access or ICT corruption and allow 
for the timely restoration of services making use of 
data and system backups as necessary.” 
Leading security 
•	
Keepit employs leading security measures such as 
strong encryption both in transit and at rest, as well 
as immutability by default. 
•	
Through secure user-based access control, data is 
always protected from unauthorized access.
Article 12.6 – Timely data recovery 
“In determining the recovery time and recovery point 
objectives for each function, financial entities shall 
take into account whether it is a critical or important 
function and the potential overall impact on market 
efficiency. Such time objectives shall ensure that, 
in extreme scenarios, the agreed service levels are 
met.”
Fast, granular recovery in-place 
•	
Recovery of data is easy, fast, and granular with 
Keepit — whether you need to recover a single file or 
larger sets of data. 
•	
Any dataset, no matter how old, can instantly be 
accessed and data will be restored in-place with 
metadata and hierarchies intact. 
•	
Keepit supports prioritized disaster recovery plans 
to make sure you get what you need to keep your 
business running. Our customers have realized a 
90% reduction in time needed for priority restores 
— read more here.
Article 12.7 – Ensuring data integrity 
“When recovering from an ICT-related 
incident, financial entities shall perform necessary 
checks, including any multiple checks and 
reconciliations, in order to ensure that the highest 
level of data integrity is maintained.”
Immutability by default 
•	
Keepit has been purposefully built to be tamper 
proof, offering a guarantee that data stays 
immutable.  
•	
The application uses a Merkle Tree architecture 
which makes any low-level tampering impossible 
and easily evident. A given requested data object is 
unaltered from its original form.

Under DORA, financial institutions need to set up backup systems that can withstand cyber 
incidents, system failures, and other disruptions. These backup systems are not simply a technical 
requirement — they play a central role in ensuring business continuity. DORA’s requirements include 
ensuring logical and physical data segregation, data integrity, access control, redundancy, and 
timely recovery. Choosing a third-party backup provider with a proven track record in financial 
services can help ensure compliance while also mitigating risks in the event of an incident.
Next steps toward DORA compliance 
Saxo Bank uses Keepit to 
protect critical financial 
data 
In 2019, Saxo Bank implemented Keepit as the backup 
and recovery service for all employees on Microsoft 
Office 365. Saxo Bank has recently implemented 
Microsoft Teams and plans to introduce more features 
going forward in collaboration with Keepit as the trusted 
provider, protecting their cloud SaaS data.   
An impressive element of Keepit’s solution is that it often 
takes only minutes to find and share the specific item with 
our Legal team, whilst it often took much longer with our 
on-prem solution. 
Thomas Ulrich
Head of Digital Workplace & Support Services 
Saxo Bank
Navigating Complex Compliance 
A multinational financial services provider, Saxo Bank is 
subject to stringent compliance and regulatory control 
across its operations worldwide. This in turn requires an 
efficient search function that enables Saxo Bank to find 
and share specific data with its legal team within minutes. 
Keepit’s unique find and restore features facilitates this. 
Customer Story: Saxobank
Keepit has significant experience in supporting financial 
institutions with their data protection and compliance 
needs. See why customers like Saxo Bank choose us for 
helping them navigate complex compliance requirements. 
“It is very important to back up our Microsoft 
applications in a sophisticated and fulsome 
manner. We considered Microsoft’s backup and 
archiving capabilities to be insufficient for our 
purposes and were impressed by the scope of 
Keepit’s backup and archiving capabilities, as 
well as the granularity of their restore function.”
Thomas Ulrich, Head of Digital Workplace 
& Support Services, Saxo Bank
If you don’t want to take our customers’ word for it, Keepit was recently 
awarded “Most Innovative, Compliance” at the 2024 Global Infosec 
Awards. The Keepit platform has received multiple industry awards, 
underscoring our commitment to security and compliance.
If you’d like to receive advice on your compliance journey and discuss how Keepit can help you 
comply with DORA, let’s have a conversation.
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform 
purpose-built for the cloud by securing data in a vendor-
independent cloud to safeguard essential business 
applications, boost cyber resilience, and future-proof data 
protection.
For more information visit www.keepit.com  
or follow Keepit on Linkedin.
