Source: https://www.keepit.com/Assets/Pdf/Basisbank_Customer_Case.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Customer Story: Basisbank
Basisbank chose Keepit Taking control of data security
Basisbank currently has two mail systems and plans to
to add an extra layer of migrate completely to the Office 365 cloud solution. It is
crucial that Basisbank relies on a stable and independent
security for their Office Office 365 backup solution in a secondary location as
soon as the two mailing systems and thus the implicit
365 data and comply extra data copy are terminated.
with FSA legal regulatory Our biggest challenge with Office 365 is that it is a cloud-
based Microsoft solution that is out of our control. When
requirements. we decide to move all mailboxes to Office 365, we cannot
live with the fact that our Office 365 data makes us 100%
dependent on Microsoft. We need an independent backup
solution such as Keepit to secure our Office 365 data and
allow for quick restore.
Flemming Selchau
IT Manager
Selchau sees a much simpler set-up with Microsoft Office
365 cloud solution and Keepit’s automatic cloud backup
at a secondary location. Keepit’s primary function is
to ensure that Basisbank will not compromise the data
security, although both solutions are located in the cloud.
Page 1

--- Page 2 ---
Customer Story: Basisbank
Meeting regulatory requirements
As a financial company, Basisbank is subject to a number
of legal obligations and specific regulatory requirements
regarding outsourcing, which must be respected when
embracing a cloud-based solution like Office 365.
Microsoft’s backup options were not sufficient, neither in
terms of the legal requirements, nor Basisbank’s internal
requirements. By implementing Keepit as a secondary
independent backup solution, Basisbank fulfills the
requirement of providing full data security for Office 365.
Keepit as a functional tool
Besides ensuring automatic backup of the company’s
Office 365 data, Basisbank’s chosen solution also had
to offer a quick search and restore process. Selchau
wanted Keepit to fill in the missing functionality that
he experienced with Office 365, serving as a daily tool
ensuring a simple and efficient workflow for employees.
Our biggest challenge with
We wanted to be able to use the extra backup application
Office 365 is that is out for something more in our daily work. For example, Keepit
allows us to easily find and restore a lost email. Rather than
of our control. We need spending 14 days working on this, Keepit ensures a much
more efficient operation.
an independent backup Flemming Selchau
solution such as Keepit to
An accessible and affordable solution
secure our Office 365 data The price of the solution has been an important
parameter in choosing a backup supplier.
and allow for quick restore.
Office 365 is a relatively affordable solution, and a third-
party backup solution should measure up to this. The
balance between price and performance has to be right.
Flemming Selchau And I think Keepit has got that just right.
IT Manager Flemming Selchau
Basisbank
The right solution for Basisbank
Basisbank acknowledged that an independent backup
for Office 365 was a necessity to maintain a high level of
security. Rather than rely on one supplier, Keepit adds an
extra layer of security for Basisbank’s Office 365 data,
whilst ensuring legal regulatory requirements.
Page 2

--- Page 3 ---
Customer Story: Basisbank
Established in 2000, Basisbank is Denmark’s first fully online bank –
and one of the first in the world without any physical branches. With
headquarters in Teglholmen, Copenhagen, Basisbank offers loans and
savings products to private customers and is located on about 30,000
mobiles, tablets and computers.
Get in touch with Keepit
Reach out for a talk and get a free 30-day trial.
+45 8987 7792
sales@keepit.com
Page 3
