Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/product-sheets/EntraID-Productsheet.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Keepit Backup and Recovery
for Microsoft Entra ID
Industry-leading coverage of Microsoft Entra ID
Microsoft Entra ID holds identities and provides authen tication and authorization for
your organization’s critical SaaS applications. Losing its objects and policies — due to
cyberattacks, accidental deletion, or outages — means disruption to your business and
additional stress for you and your team.
Awarded for its ease-of-use, Keepit’s leading coverage of Microsoft Entra ID ensures that
your data is securely backed up in our vendor-independent cloud and can be recovered, or
rolled back swiftly and accurately when incidents occur. It effectively minimizes the impact
of data loss and eliminates the burden of rebuilding the Microsoft Entra ID environment.
Unmatched coverage Fast recovery Assured data integrity
With the broadest coverage of You can quickly recover and roll You have confidence that your data
objects and policies, including back changes to objects and can’t be modified or deleted. Stored
Intune, BitLocker, and LAPS, you policies. Rapidly identify changes in our vendor-independent cloud,
remain confident in your ability to and determine which to recover in Microsoft Entra ID objects and policies
recover data at any time. case of disruption. remain accessible, at all times.
The risk The impact Proven benefit
Microsoft Entra ID showed over $500,000 was the cost of recovery Recovery time of less than
7,000 password attacks for Carlsbad after a contractor 3 hours for a Keepit customer
per second blocked in 2024 deleted 1,200 user accounts after a targeted attack
Source: Microsoft Digital Defense Report 2024 Source: United States Department of Justice Source: “Keepit enables rapid
recovery from cyberattack”
“Keepit for Entra ID played a crucial role
within the recovery process by allowing the
customer to quickly restore all compromised
user identities to a fully operational state
prior to the recovery of their data.”
Siddick Elaheebocus, Founder
and CEO of INNOVISION
© Keepit. All rights reserved. Version 1.0

--- Page 2 ---
What’s in Keepit for Microsoft Entra ID
KEY CAPABILITIES
Outstanding ease-of-use Rollback Highest security
Built to protect SaaS applications, Easily roll back changes that impact Stored in our vendor-independent
Keepit is quick to implement and your operations. cloud, and immutable by design,
intuitive to use. Keepit offers industry-leading
Unlimited retention security , keeping your backups safe.
Multiple restore options Customize retention for up to 99 years
Restore objects in bulk or granularly with no extra costs. Integrates with SIEM
to guarantee fast and precise Feed security-related data into SIEM
recovery. Monitoring and analytics for further investigation and action.
Ensure the integrity of backups by
monitoring and identifying abnormal
changes to address them quickly.
WHAT WE COVER
USERS GROUPS ADMIN UNITS ROLES AND ROLE ASSIGNMENTS APP REGISTRATIONS
SERVICE PRINCIPALS/ENTERPRISE APPS CONDITIONAL ACCESS POLICIES
INTUNE DEVICE CONFIGURATION PROFILES INTUNE COMPLIANCE POLICIES BITLOCKER RECOVERY KEYS
AUDIT LOGS SIGN-IN LOGS WINDOWS LAPS POLICIES AND PASSWORD HISTORY
Find out how simple
and easy it is to use Keepit
Book a demo
Your data. Here today. Here tomorrow.
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data
in a vendor-independent cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and
future-proof data protection. For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on Linkedin.
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved. Microsoft and Microsoft Entra ID are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.

--- Page 3 ---
Resilience starts with
intelligent choices
Recover and restore your SaaS data
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data in a vendor-independent
cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and future-proof data protection.
www.keepit.com
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved.
