Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/Sales%20enablement/ESG%20-%20Keepit%20Technical%20Validation%20-%20Oct%202021.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Enterprise Strategy Group | Getting to the bigger truth.™
Technical Validation
Keepit: Dedicated Data Protection for SaaS
Workloads
Delivering Data Availability, Cost-efficiency, Simplicity, Instant
Recovery, and Total Security
By Kerry Dolan, Senior IT Validation Analyst
October 2021
This ESG Technical Validation was commissioned by Keepit and is distributed under license from ESG.
© 2021 by The Enterprise Strategy Group, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

--- Page 2 ---
Technical Validation: Keepit: Dedicated Data Protection for SaaS Workloads 2
Contents
Introduction .......................................................................................................................................................................... 3
Background ....................................................................................................................................................................... 3
Keepit Dedicated SaaS Data Protection ............................................................................................................................ 4
ESG Technical Validation ...................................................................................................................................................... 6
Ease of Management ........................................................................................................................................................ 6
Initial Setup and First Backup ........................................................................................................................................ 6
Data Search and Restore................................................................................................................................................... 8
Finding and Restoring Microsoft Office 365 and Salesforce Data ................................................................................. 9
The Bigger Truth ................................................................................................................................................................. 13
ESG Technical Validations
The goal of ESG Technical Validations is to educate IT professionals about information technology solutions for
companies of all types and sizes. ESG Technical Validations are not meant to replace the evaluation process
that should be conducted before making purchasing decisions, but rather to provide insight into these
emerging technologies. Our objectives are to explore some of the more valuable features and functions of IT
solutions, show how they can be used to solve real customer problems, and identify any areas needing
improvement. The ESG Validation Team’s expert third-party perspective is based on our own hands-on testing
as well as on interviews with customers who use these products in production environments.
© 2021 by The Enterprise Strategy Group, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

--- Page 3 ---
Technical Validation: Keepit: Dedicated Data Protection for SaaS Workloads 3
Introduction
This report documents ESG’s technical validation of Keepit, a dedicated software-as-a-service (SaaS) data protection
solution for multiple workloads. Our validation focused on the simplicity of setup and ease of backup and restore.
Background
The use of cloud-based SaaS applications is mainstream today. According to recent ESG research, 90% of survey
respondents report using SaaS, with Microsoft Office 365 and Salesforce.com the most widely used.1 However, many
organizations mistakenly assume that SaaS vendors are protecting customers’ cloud-resident data when, in fact, SaaS
vendors are only responsible for maintaining their cloud environments, not customer data. Some SaaS vendors offer third-
party data protection solutions, but these often cannot support the scale and SLAs of critical production data; they are
often incomplete, cumbersome, and costly. It can take months before data is available.
In the same research, 86% of respondents reported relying partially or completely on the SaaS vendors for data protection,
a dangerous disconnect that can lead to serious consequences including lost or unrecoverable data. For example, when
asked how their organizations recover Microsoft Office 365 data, 74% reported relying on Microsoft’s service recovery
functionality. Similarly, 59% of Salesforce.com customers reported not using a third-party backup solution, instead relying
on Salesforce.com.
Where does data loss come from? In our research, the most common reasons for data loss were service outages (22%),
accidental deletion (20%), and external malicious deletion (19%) such as ransomware attacks (Figure 1). Other reasons
include problems with backup mechanisms and retention/deletion policy misunderstandings. In our research, 81% of
Microsoft Office 365 users had to recover data, but only 15% were able to recover 100% of their data.
Figure 1. Top Causes of SaaS Data Loss
What is the top cause of data loss for the SaaS-based applications your
organization uses? (Percent of respondents, N=344)
Service
Internal malicious Don't know, 4% outage/unavailability
deletion, 6% Other, 1% causing data
destruction or
Account closure, 8%
corruption, 22%
Misunderstanding of
retention/deletion
policies of service, 9%
Accidental deletion,
Inability to recover all
20%
the lost data with
current backup
mechanism, 12%
External malicious
deletion, 19%
1 Source: ESG Master Survey Results, 2021 Data Protection Cloud Strategies, May 2021. All ESG research references and charts in this technical
validation have been taken from these master survey results.
© 2021 by The Enterprise Strategy Group, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

--- Page 4 ---
Technical Validation: Keepit: Dedicated Data Protection for SaaS Workloads 4
What is important when choosing cloud-based data protection? When ESG asked this question of research respondents,
they most often cited the ability to restore data remotely for disaster recovery (35%), freeing up IT staff (29%), improving
service levels (24%) and greater cost-effectiveness than in-house solutions and processes (23%).
Figure 2. Top 10 Drivers of Cloud-based Data Protection
Which of the following factors were–or are–the biggest drivers behind your organization’s
consideration of cloud-based data protection services? (Percent of respondents, N=376,
three responses accepted)
Ability to store data remotely for disaster recovery 35%
Potential to free up IT staff to support more strategic on-
29%
premises systems and/or applications
Improved service levels 24%
More cost-effective than in-house solutions and processes 23%
Reduced data center costs 22%
Potential to reduce/eliminate on-premises backup hardware
22%
and software resources
Better management/reporting capabilities 21%
Ability to offload regulatory compliance requirements to a
20%
service provider
Improved support for remote office/branch office locations 19%
Ability to leverage orchestration capabilities for faster
18%
failover/recovery
0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25% 30% 35% 40%
Keepit Dedicated SaaS Data Protection
Keepit offers a dedicated SaaS backup and recovery solution built from the ground up specifically for SaaS applications,
including Microsoft Office 365, Azure AD, Salesforce, Google Workspace, and Microsoft Dynamics 365. Keepit protects and
restores data and metadata for each application at various levels of granularity. For applications whose structure includes
related records (e.g., Salesforce and Dynamics 365), restore can include individual items or items that are related.
Keepit stores backup snapshots in its own dedicated hosting facilities. The solution was designed around an independent,
proprietary cloud with a focus on data availability, cost-efficiency, simplicity, instant recovery, and security. Keepit’s
regional data centers around the world are fully redundant for total protection. Keepit supports data sovereignty and
GDPR compliance requirements as well as ISAE, ISO, and HIPAA standards.
Keepit’s backup service guarantees at least two backup snapshots per day; data are stored in two separate data centers in
each region. It uses the “incremental forever” method to minimize data movement. Keepit connects to SaaS applications
via API and leverages network peering arrangements with Azure, Amazon, and other clouds to optimize performance.
© 2021 by The Enterprise Strategy Group, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

--- Page 5 ---
Technical Validation: Keepit: Dedicated Data Protection for SaaS Workloads 5
Figure 3. Keepit Dedicated SaaS Backup
Source: Enterprise Strategy Group
Key features include:
• Data Availability. Keepit’s proprietary backup and recovery cloud is designed to ensure 100% availability for customer
SaaS data. Using redundant data centers, Keepit stores four backup copies in two separate physical locations that are
always available, off-site, and vendor neutral. Keepit operates data centers in multiple regions globally, helping
customers meet data sovereignty requirements; in addition, Keepit’s enterprise-grade cloud data protection is fully
GDPR-compliant and certified. Keepit provides fast, reliable, and secure restore operations, and helps speed disaster
recovery planning.
• Cost-effectiveness. With Keepit’s proprietary cloud, everything is included in the seat price, eliminating any concern
about unexpected costs. The per-seat cost includes unlimited storage and archiving, free transactions, and no egress
or ingress fees. With its object-storage architecture, Keepit stores backed-up data on high-density, hard drive-based
storage systems; combined with the “incremental forever” backup approach that only transfers changes in any
dataset, Keepit remains cost-efficient. Keepit’s predictable pricing keeps customers in control of costs even as they
scale.
• Focused on Simplicity. Keepit streamlines SaaS data protection needs with one universal service that supports
Microsoft 365, Salesforce, Google Workspace, Dynamics, and more. The user-friendly UI simplifies daily backup and
restore, as well as scaling. The platform is intuitive and simple, requiring no training. Keepit delivers an updated
platform in tune with the latest changes in SaaS applications, ensuring a seamless backup and recovery experience.
© 2021 by The Enterprise Strategy Group, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

--- Page 6 ---
Technical Validation: Keepit: Dedicated Data Protection for SaaS Workloads 6
• Instant Recovery. Keepit’s advanced suite of search and restore features lets administrators execute fast and
complete recovery in seconds. Its advanced, high-speed search technology based on fast indexing and reindexing
algorithms enables browsing through historical snapshots, and Keepit’s file previewer makes it easy to verify the data
before restoring. Administrators can even share with a user a link to the data to validate before restoring. Keepit’s
intelligent restore orchestration workflow enables administrators to select the snapshots to restore from the method
of restore and includes duplicate handling.
• Robust Security. Keepit developed a purpose-built SaaS backup platform with security designed in. Keepit’s storage
architecture is built on a tamper-proof, immutable blockchain-based object store and file system. This provides
instant access to raw data objects, as well as instant data verification. All data protected by Keepit is stored and
protected by a hash-chain object store that prohibits the deletion or manipulation of any data object or backup set.
Because data cannot be altered or deleted, it is impenetrable to ransomware, malicious attacks, or other data loss
scenarios, and is encrypted in transit and at rest. Backed-up data is immediately encrypted using industry best-
practice algorithms before it is written to storage.
The API front end connects to SaaS applications. To scale, Keepit simply expands the number/size of servers on the front
end. Dual, active-active data centers are used for load balancing and data duplication.
ESG Technical Validation
ESG viewed live demos of the Keepit solution with a focus on ease of setup and management across multiple SaaS
products. These demos used Microsoft Office 365 and Salesforce workloads, but the functionality applies to all supported
applications.
Ease of Management
Keepit is a browser-based solution, with no additional plug-ins or hardware components. All functions leverage each SaaS
application’s APIs. Setup and management functions are virtually identical across the SaaS applications that Keepit
supports.
Initial Setup and First Backup
Setup is extremely simple. It starts with creating a connector to a SaaS application, after which the Keepit application is
automatically installed in the application; once that is complete, Keepit is ready to start backing up. Role-based access
control enables full control and flexibility.
ESG set up a Microsoft Office 365 connector in just a few clicks, using an environment with Keepit already installed. It
should be noted that Keepit does not require the use of a
global admin service account for Microsoft Office 365
workloads (Exchange, OneDrive, SharePoint, and Teams). From
the Keepit UI Connectors tab, we clicked Add Connector,
selected Add Microsoft 365 Connector, and confirmed
connection to Microsoft tenants. Next, we were taken back to
the Keepit UI to configure the first backup, which we named
ESG M365 Backup. Administrators can select all data or subsets
of data to back up for the main areas of Microsoft Office 365:
Exchange, OneDrive, SharePoint, Groups, and Teams. Keepit
leverages the customer’s Active Directory to identify users; all
users are included by default, but administrators can specify
© 2021 by The Enterprise Strategy Group, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

--- Page 7 ---
Technical Validation: Keepit: Dedicated Data Protection for SaaS Workloads 7
users or groups to include if desired. Figure 4 shows the ESG M365 Backup with the four primary Microsoft Office 365
areas and the subsets of Exchange for selection.
Figure 4. Configuring Microsoft Office 365 Backup
Source: Enterprise Strategy Group
Management features include:
• Automatic snapshots. Keepit backup snapshots are executed automatically between the SaaS cloud and the Keepit
cloud. There is no backup schedule for administrators to configure with Keepit and no planning of backups at off
hours to avoid impacting production.
• Flexible schedule. Keepit uses a dynamic schedule to deliver at least two snapshots of all data every day. With cloud-
based applications, there is no way to know what Salesforce, Microsoft, or Google are doing with their applications at
any time; in addition, they have customers around the globe, so there is no downtime. However, the SaaS providers’
APIs have limits on activity, so if Keepit is hitting their ecosystems too hard, they may be throttled back. For this
reason, Keepit maintains a dynamic schedule and can re-try as needed to optimize API calls. With no timeframe to
work around, Keepit ensures that snapshots are completed sometime during each 24-hour period and that, during
backup, there is no interruption to any Keepit or SaaS application functionality.
• Up to unlimited retention. The default for all data is 12 months and up to unlimited retention time, depending on
customer needs. Since Keepit does not charge customers for storage capacity, there is no economic need to manage
how long data is kept (outside of customer policies and compliance requirements). All data remains easily accessible,
with no storage tiering or separate archiving. Administrators can configure custom retention periods if desired.
© 2021 by The Enterprise Strategy Group, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

--- Page 8 ---
Technical Validation: Keepit: Dedicated Data Protection for SaaS Workloads 8
• Data Availability. The Keepit cloud stores data redundantly, with four copies of all data in two separate data centers.
Initial backups can be lengthy, but the Keepit platform remains available for other tasks. Data is indexed as it comes
in, so data is usable very quickly.
• Audit Log and Job
Monitor. Keepit’s audit
log and job monitor
simplify management
and help
administrators
maintain a healthy
environment. ESG
viewed the demo job
monitor, which
showed the backup
status for all
connectors for the
previous 24 hours,
including the amount
of data backed up and
the start and end times.
• Keepit API. The Keepit API enables customers to integrate Keepit into their existing service management workflows,
including ServiceNow, Splunk, and others, enabling consolidated, automated management and a central location for
notifications regarding job completion, skipped items, etc. This increases administrator productivity, reducing costs
for managing data protection. In addition, customers gain intelligent data management, as they can access current
and historical data through a single API interface. This data can be used to improve business outcomes with analytics.
Why This Matters
SaaS applications save IT a lot of headaches—they require no hardware and little management. Therefore, it makes
sense for SaaS backups to do the same—simplify tasks for IT and save time.
ESG validated how easy and fast it was to set up Keepit’s browser-based solution in less than five minutes with just a
couple of clicks. It requires no scheduling or retention time configuration, and the workflow is the same for all
supported applications. Keepit offers simple, secure, complete data protection with flexibility to include or exclude
subsets of SaaS data.
Data Search and Restore
One of the Keepit solution’s key features is how easy it is to find the data you want and restore it. The process is virtually
identical across all workloads. Finding and restoring documents, emails, folders, teams, SharePoint sites, or groups of items
is extremely simple and fast, including searching for metadata that describe the items to restore. Administrators with the
highest privileges can preview items to ensure they are restoring the right data. Data can be restored to the same location
or a different location, including SharePoint sites that can be restored to new URLs.
© 2021 by The Enterprise Strategy Group, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

--- Page 9 ---
Technical Validation: Keepit: Dedicated Data Protection for SaaS Workloads 9
Finding and Restoring Microsoft Office 365 and Salesforce Data
ESG started with a look at the dashboard of a site with connectors to all supported applications (Figure 5). Accessing all
SaaS applications with the same workflow dramatically simplifies the ability to find and restore data. The dashboard shows
the timing of most recent backups, with a configuration tab to control access to backups.
Figure 5. Keepit Dashboard
Source: Enterprise Strategy Group
ESG clicked on the Microsoft 365 Backup-Demo, clicked on Users, and searched for Megan. Once we clicked on this user’s
name, we could view her Microsoft Office 365 subfolders: Calendar, Contacts, Archive, OneDrive, Outlook, and Tasks. The
UI showed the size of each subfolder and time of last backup (Figure 6). We clicked on Outlook/Inbox and could view the
most recent snapshot of her email folders and individual emails, shown with the same structure and sort options as a
typical Exchange mailbox.
© 2021 by The Enterprise Strategy Group, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

--- Page 10 ---
Technical Validation: Keepit: Dedicated Data Protection for SaaS Workloads 10
Figure 6. Finding Emails in Microsoft Office 365 Backup
Source: Enterprise Strategy Group
Keepit makes it extremely simple to find items that have been deleted. This is an important feature since accidental
deletion by users is one of the most common reasons for having to restore. Figure 7 shows Keepit’s Deleted Items View,
with the three emails that have been deleted; these are displayed as grayed out and include a trash bin icon on the right.
However, these did not have to be extracted from the trash bin but are shown in context; they are grayed out because
they had appeared in previous backups sets but were missing from the most recent snapshot.
Figure 7. Deleted Items View
Source: Enterprise Strategy Group
© 2021 by The Enterprise Strategy Group, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

--- Page 11 ---
Technical Validation: Keepit: Dedicated Data Protection for SaaS Workloads 11
To restore the Northwind Customer Data email to the original location, we simply clicked on the three dots on the right
and selected Restore. Other options were to view different versions of that email, to download it, or to share it.
Administrators with the highest privileges could also preview the email.
It is important to note that we were not viewing a snapshot on a storage array; instead, we saw the Exchange view with
user-specific folders and emails. Keepit searched across all snapshots of this data and presented it in a user-friendly way
that made sense in the context of the application. This is part of the simplicity of the system. When a user asks IT to find a
deleted document or an email, IT will typically ask about time frame and some identifying information so they can search in
the right snapshot. This process can be cumbersome and error prone, particularly when users aren’t sure when they last
had the item. With Keepit, searches leverage the typical user view, and the Deleted Items View makes it extremely simple
to find deleted data and restore it in a couple of clicks.
Next, ESG restored a document from the same user’s OneDrive, but from a specific snapshot rather than from the latest
one. This can be done on the single item level or from the Snapshots Viewer. For a single item, we navigated to the Annual
Financial Report (Draft) document in OneDrive, clicked the three dots, and selected Versions. A timeline appeared; we used
a slider to find the approximate date and then selected from the list of available snapshots by date and time. We also
browsed to Outlook/Inbox, searched for Northwind, and clicked Snapshots Viewer to use the same timeline (Figure 8).
Figure 8. Select Item by Specific Snapshot
Source: Enterprise Strategy Group
Keepit can restore individual items or groups of items, such as mailboxes, folders, or entire users. In addition, instead of
doing a complete restore, administrators can create a secure, sharable link to data. This enables instant access and offers
the ability to share with users outside of the SaaS application environment, and the link can be time limited. For example,
should a user be unable to access her OneDrive but need a critical presentation, administrators can create a password-
protected link for immediate access.
© 2021 by The Enterprise Strategy Group, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

--- Page 12 ---
Technical Validation: Keepit: Dedicated Data Protection for SaaS Workloads 12
ESG also viewed a Salesforce restore and noted the extreme similarity to the Microsoft Office 365 workflow. Keepit
restores Salesforce objects, including individual records, files, and attachments. We selected a Salesforce backup, selected
Objects, and searched for Accounts; this brought up a list of all accounts, as well as the Deleted Items View. We selected
the PIND Investment Backup account and clicked Restore. With Salesforce, since many records are related—such as leads
and contacts—there is an option to restore the single record or to add related records (Figure 9).
Figure 9. Restore Options for Salesforce Data
Source: Enterprise Strategy Group
Why This Matters
Backup data should be easy to find and restore in the event of accidental deletion, malicious attack, system failure, or
policy error to maximize production uptime. In addition, backup data that is easy to find can be used for other data
management functions such as eDiscovery.
ESG validated how simple it was to find and restore individual items or groups of items from any Keepit snapshot.
Administrators browse easily in a natural format that resembles the application context. The Deleted Items View makes
finding deleted data extremely simple—a great feature since accidental deletion is one of the most common reasons to
restore. Data can be restored to the same or another location, including new SharePoint sites; in addition, Keepit
enables a sharable, password-protected, time-limited link to data for immediate access. And applications with related
data, such as Salesforce, can restore related objects as well as individual ones.
© 2021 by The Enterprise Strategy Group, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

--- Page 13 ---
Technical Validation: Keepit: Dedicated Data Protection for SaaS Workloads 13
The Bigger Truth
Business is no longer strictly on premises, and neither are applications. As mentioned earlier, in ESG research, 90% of
survey respondents report using cloud-based SaaS applications such as Microsoft Office 365, Salesforce, Google
Workspace, and Microsoft Dynamics 365. However, many SaaS customers don’t realize that they are responsible for
protecting their SaaS data. In the face of increased exposure to ransomware attacks and other vulnerabilities, as well as
typical deletions and failures, it is critical to be proactive about protecting SaaS data. There is no time to waste, as ESG
expects more and more software to be delivered as a service in the future.
Keepit offers an extremely simple, secure SaaS data protection solution that uses a proprietary object store to keep data
protected and tamper-proof in its independent, redundant global data centers. The Keepit brand is known for simplicity,
security, cost-effectiveness, and fast data recovery. Key aspects of its simplicity are that snapshots are automatic, so no
scheduling is required; data is retained forever by default with unlimited storage, so data retention is easy to configure and
manage according to your compliance requirements; and pricing is by seat, so there are no charges for ingress, egress,
storage capacity, bandwidth, etc.
ESG validated the Keepit solution’s:
• Simplicity and speed of initial setup and backup.
• Simplicity and speed of finding and restoring data.
• Restore options that make data quickly accessible while retaining SaaS application context.
It seems clear that the Keepit solution was not built using a traditional data protection paradigm, but instead was
specifically designed for SaaS applications—and for use by generalists and application owners, not data protection
specialists. Keepit understands what customers need. They need a couple of backups a day, and they need them to happen
automatically. They need to be able to easily find their data and get it back as quickly as possible, no matter how old it is.
They need an immutable history, and they need to comply with corporate, regional, and industry governance
requirements. The long, arduous bare-metal recovery process is just not sustainable in today’s fast-paced business
environment.
Keepit delivers on all these key needs for SaaS applications. With Keepit, customers can restore data remotely for disaster
recovery; free up IT staff so they can contribute more strategically; improve service levels; and reduce costs. These are key
drivers of cloud-based data protection according to ESG research.
ESG believes that adding support for more SaaS applications and adding certain features like data masking would extend
the solution’s value. If your organization is ready to get serious about protecting SaaS data and is looking for a solution that
is simple, secure, complete, and cost-effective, ESG recommends that you take a good look at Keepit.
© 2021 by The Enterprise Strategy Group, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

--- Page 14 ---
All trademark names are property of their respective companies. Information contained in this publication has been obtained by sources The
Enterprise Strategy Group (ESG) considers to be reliable but is not warranted by ESG. This publication may contain opinions of ESG, which are subject
to change from time to time. This publication is copyrighted by The Enterprise Strategy Group, Inc. Any reproduction or redistribution of this
publication, in whole or in part, whether in hard-copy format, electronically, or otherwise to persons not authorized to receive it, without the express
consent of The Enterprise Strategy Group, Inc., is in violation of U.S. copyright law and will be subject to an action for civil damages and, if applicable,
criminal prosecution. Should you have any questions, please contact ESG Client Relations at 508.482.0188.
Enterprise Strategy Group is an IT analyst, research, validation, and strategy firm that provides market
intelligence and actionable insight to the global IT community.
© 2021 by The Enterprise Strategy Group, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
www.esg-global.com contact@esg-global.com 508.482.0188
© 2021 by The Enterprise Strategy Group, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
