Source: https://www.keepit.com/Assets/Pdf/GCP-Customer-Success-case.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Customer Story: GCP
10-Year Data Retention GCP rents and manages apartments across Germany
focusing on the quality of the apartments and
Requirement Guaranteed outstanding tenant service. Keepit protects GCP’s
business-critical data, ensuring compliance and instant
with Keepit M365 data access.
Having Keepit as our trusted cloud
backup provider guarantees that our
M365 data continues to be secure and
available at all times.
Eldad Omer
Deputy CIO & Head of IT.
10-Year Retention Ensures Compliance
According to Deputy CIO & Head of IT Eldad Omer, the
most difficult compliance requirement to fulfill in Germany
is the 10-year retention period of all financial data. Add
to this, the ability to quickly find data for audits and
other legal cases, making high data availability a key
requirement for GCP.
Page 1

--- Page 2 ---
Customer Story: GCP
Keepit meets all of our With Keepit’s private, vendor-neutral cloud, GCP’s
business-critical data is stored at two separate locations
security requirements, independent of Microsoft’s public cloud, applying the
classic 3-2-1 backup strategy to the cloud. GCP’s data
including a 10-year data has always been protected by the highest level of security,
and it continues to be as more data is stored in the cloud.
retention which is a must in
Passing a strict due diligence process, Keepit proved to
Germany. meet the requirements of GCP:
• 10-year retention period
Eldad Omer • Minimum 2 data centers at separate locations
Deputy CIO & Head of IT. • 2 automated backups a day
GCP • High data availability
• Multi-factor authentication
• Single sign-on
Easy to Find and Share Data
Restoring data that was deleted
months ago is one of the most
common requests we receive. This is
not possible with Microsoft’s 93-day
retention period.
Eldad Omer
With Keepit, IT admins can process requests from GCP’s
legal department within a day. Granular restore features
paired with the platform’s intuitive UI allows admins to
quickly find Outlook, Calendar, Contacts, and Tasks
folders for a particular user, which can then be recovered
using the PST Download feature. Admins can easily share
entire outlook folders with the GCP legal team, who then
identify the requested file in accordance with the strict
and binding General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
requirements.
With Keepit, we are adding an extra
layer of security, safeguarding
confidential user data.
Eldad Omer
Page 2

--- Page 3 ---
Customer Story: GCP
One of Keepit’s strengths is Minimize Downtime, Maximize Availability
With eDiscovery features, Keepit helps GCP ensure
instant availability: We are business continuity and minimize downtime. One of the
most valuable features for GCP is Keepit’s Deleted Items
restoring missing data on View, that allows admins to search across all historical
backup datasets and through time. The Snapshot feature
a daily basis, and Keepit makes it possible to identify the exact file before initiating
a restore.
makes it possible for a
single admin to manage the Simple Pricing
Estimating the cost for 10 year-retention was not a
data of 1,500 users. straightforward process with other vendors like Veeam
and AvePoint. With Keepit however, there are no hidden
costs. GCP licenses active users in M365 - all the rest is
Eldad Omer included in the pricing: Storage, infrastructure, SLAs, 24/7
Deputy CIO & Head of IT. support, and more.
GCP
Calculating backup costs over a
longer period of time is made simple
with Keepit.
Eldad Omer
With Keepit, GCP has a guaranteed data management
and protection platform that provides high data
availability, granular restore functions and a 10-year
retention period.
GCP rents and manages apartments across Germany. The focus is
on the quality of the apartments and outstanding tenant service. GCP
ensures that good, affordable housing is created and maintained over
the long term.
Get in touch with Keepit
Reach out for a talk and get a free 30-day trial.
+45 8987 7792
sales@keepit.com
Page 3
