Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/IF_Blueprint-Partner-case_2023_Azure.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Partner Case: IF-Blueprint
IF-Blueprint leverages IF-Blueprint is an IT service provider and Microsoft
Partner offering a managed Microsoft 365 solution. As
partner Keepit to help a trusted Keepit partner, IF-Blueprint guarantees that
their customers are getting the best-in-class backup
their customers protect the for their data when they use Keepit data protection.
When it comes to their customers’ Microsoft 365 data,
backbone of their Microsoft Head of Managed Services at IF-Blueprint Stefan Hefele
shares why backup for Azure AD is imperative to securing
365 data: Azure AD consistent access.
Azure AD: The backbone of Microsoft 365
As an identity provider, Azure AD ensures that your users
have password-protected access to their Microsoft 365
data. Without this access, employees may lose access
to data, bringing business to a halt. IF-Blueprint shares
that Keepit’s Azure AD backup solution ensures that their
customers never lose access to their Microsoft 365 data,
allowing them to keep their businesses running even when
passwords become lost or hacked.
Without access to Azure AD,
there’s no way to access the
entire M365 environment.
Stefan Hefele
Head of Managed Services, IF-Blueprint
Page 1

--- Page 2 ---
Partner Case: IF-Blueprint
If Azure AD becomes Easy to delete, difficult to recover
In Stefan’s experience, Azure AD data can be deleted
compromised, it has more easily than in other Microsoft apps, making the
need for backup even more pressing. While apps like
much larger implications Exchange and SharePoint have recycling bins, Azure AD
does not – in many cases - offer this function, making it
than just deleting a file. even more difficult to access your Microsoft data if Azure
AD data is accidentally deleted. As a side note, while a
You may not even be recycling bin can function as a “quick fix” for accidentally
deleting a single file in some apps, it is far from enough to
able to login to your protect your company’s data from a ransomware attack
or larger scale data deletions. Once Azure AD data is
computer, making it deleted, it has much larger implications than just deleting
a file. You may not even be able to login to your account
impossible to work. – or even your computer, making it impossible to continue
working as normal.
Stefan Hefele Avoid recovery headaches
Head of Managed Services, IF-Blueprint Without backup for Azure AD, it can take hours just
to reset one PC – and days to reset all the PCs in an
organization –after a cyberattack. This reset could
include creating a new Azure AD environment and
potentially rescripting everything. In short, it’s a lot of
work. IF-Blueprint recommends Keepit for Azure AD for
this reason; when your Azure AD data is backed up with
Keepit, you’ll never, ever lose access to your Microsoft 365
data.
If a single machine gets corrupted,
it can take up to 4 hours to reset the
whole machine (without automations
in place.) Imagine translating this
downtime to hundreds or thousands
of machines across an entire
organization.
Stefan Hefele
About IF-Blueprint
Based in Munich, Germany, IF-Blueprint is a proven Microsoft partner
focusing on complex and business-critical IT services. With extensive
experience working with midsize and large companies, their highly
trained experts offer sustainable solutions, proven architectural
concepts and best practices that help a wide range of businesses
ensure success.
Get in touch with Keepit
Reach out to our partner account managers to learn
more about our Partner Program.
+45 8987 4757
partner@keepit.com
Page 2
