Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/EN/Intelligent-recovery-with-Keepit.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Intelligent
recovery
with Keepit
Data loss scenarios in SaaS applications are multifold, from mistaken deletion, to misconfiguration,
to an impactful ransomware attack. Recovering in each of these scenarios adds pressure on IT,
development, and operations teams. And the challenge of recovering from data loss becomes even
more complex with the exponential growth of data, the widespread adoption of SaaS applications,
and the growing cyberthreat.
Keepit is intelligently built to eliminate the burden and simplify processes for data recovery. It saves
time and effort while continually minimizing the impact of data loss. In this factsheet, you’ll find how
our capabilities support fast and intelligent recovery, regardless of the data loss scenario.
In the following, we will walk you through common challenges during a recovery process, and
describe how Keepit can help solve these problems in a more intelligent way.
The challenge: Limited access to data
Access to data is a critical element when you need to recover. Common SaaS storage models use data
tiering as a way to reduce storage costs. As a consequence, you’ll face hydration periods that delay
recovery and unexpected retrieval costs when you need your data most.
Keepit’s solution
Uninterrupted access to all your data at all times
With Keepit, your data is available 24/7, always hot and kept with unlimited retention. Because we’re storing
your data in our independent cloud, no matter the recovery scenario or how old your data is, it’s always
instantly available. No hydration periods and no ingress fees, giving you more control over your data.
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved. Microsoft and Microsoft Entra ID are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.

--- Page 2 ---
The challenge: Limited insight into data loss
Data loss can often go unnoticed until it’s too late. Whether you’re the victim of a malicious attack,
a mishap at your cloud provider, or the most common cause of data loss — human error and
misconfiguration — it’s often hard to determine just how much data has been lost. With limited insight,
time needed to recover increases.
Keepit’s solution
Full insight into what’s missing and what’s changed
Keepit’s data monitoring and anomaly detection capabilities help you identify possible issues early on for
investigation and remediation.
• Our Data Protection Dashboard allows you to quickly spot changes in your backups, and to drill down with the Data
Compare and Search functions to identify where and when the change occurred.
• Our Anomaly Detection functionality identifies and alerts about anomalies to prevent and quickly recover from data loss.
• The unique Preview functionality allows you to inspect the content of data objects before you determine whether this is
the content you need to recover.
The challenge: Verifying the integrity of data
When restoring data, the integrity of the data is a critical requirement. You need to be confident
that any recovered data is accurate, complete, and free of malware.
Keepit’s solution
Immutability by default
Keepit ensures data integrity for confident recovery. Keepit has been purposefully built to be tamper
proof, offering a guarantee that data stays immutable. The application uses a Merkle Tree architecture
which makes any low-level tampering impossible.
The challenge
The challenge: Recovering data in a timely manner
Recovering data can be a lengthy, complicated process, leading to costly downtime.
Most organizations cannot afford to be without their data for very long.
Keepit’s solution
Intuitive, granular, fast recovery options
Data is easy to recover, whether you need to recover a single file or an entire dataset. Keepit supports
prioritized recovery plans to make sure you get what you need to keep your business running first.
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved. Microsoft and Microsoft Entra ID
are tradeOmuarrk sc ouf sthteo Mmicreosrosf th garovuep o rfe coamlipzaendies a. 90% reduction in time needed for priority restores when recovering from
a major data loss scenario.
The challenge: Getting data back in a usable format
Many organizations only find out during recovery that while they are able to get their data
back, they cannot return it to the production environment in a usable format, increasing
complexity and lengthening the recovery process.
Keepit’s solution
In-place restores with high-fidelity data
With Keepit, data will be restored in-place with metadata and hierarchies intact, ready to be used as before
the data loss incident. This means you get your data back in a useable format and reduce costly downtime.

--- Page 3 ---
Resilient, secure, effortless
With Keepit, the data in your most critical SaaS Because of our cloud-native architecture and
applications is not only securely backed up but inherent accessibility, our platform is designed
easily recoverable when you need it. No matter for rapid recovery, regardless of scale, and can
whether you need to recover attachments from support you during both daily data loss and major
an email deleted 12 months ago, reinstate a data loss events.
mistakenly deleted policy in one of your systems,
recover lost files, or even deleted identities —
recovery with Keepit is easy, fast, and intuitive.
What our customers say Recognized by the industry
Keepit has significant experience in Keepit has received recognition for its leading
supporting organizations with their backup and recovery platform designed for
recovery and restoration needs. disaster recovery and business continuity.
See how we helped a customer recover
from a cyberattack that compromised
their Microsoft 365 user accounts.
”The fact that Keepit is “born in the cloud
for the cloud” allowed the customer
to quickly and efficiently recover from
this cybersecurity incident with minimal
impact – a benefit which would have
been near impossible to reach with a
classic on-premises backup solution.”
– Siddick Elaheebocus,
Founder and CEO of INNOVISION
Get in touch
If you’d like to discuss how Keepit can help your unique
recovery needs, let’s have a conversation.
Book a demo
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data in a vendor-
independent cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and future-proof data protection.
© 2024 Keepit. All rights reserved.
For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on Linkedin © 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved.
