Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/case-stories/Keepit-ELIN-Case-Study-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Customer case
Keepit provides
cost-effective backup
for ELIN Group

--- Page 2 ---
Customer case:
ELIN Group
ELIN Group, an electrical engineering and technical building services company in Austria,
searched for a new solution to back up its Microsoft 365 environment. With data retention
requirements of up to 35 years, the company needed a provider that could offer a cost-effective
and easy-to-use solution to comply with these requirements and secure its 1,800 users’ data.
Easy-to-use, cost-effective backup With Keepit, ELIN Group can recover critical
ELIN Group’s previous backup and recovery Microsoft 365 data in seconds. The intuitive
solution was complicated to use, and the interface requires minimal to no training, allowing
company, alongside partner LB-systems, went customers to locate, preview, and restore data
searching for a new, more user-friendly option. with just a few clicks. “The ability to send backup
“Our old solution was very unhandy, and the user data to our users through a web link has been very
interface was terrible. We wanted an intuitive to helpful to us in our daily work,” adds Alfred.
use, cost-effective solution and were introduced
to Keepit,” says Alfred Pusterhofer, Head of IT at
ELIN Group.
“European data centers and immutability
were important to us when choosing a
backup and recovery vendor.”
- Alfred Pusterhofer,
Head of IT at ELIN Group

--- Page 3 ---
Customer case:
ELIN Group
Focus on securing business continuity
Business continuity was important to ELIN Group,
and when looking for a backup and recovery
partner, they highlighted the importance of
security measures such as immutability. “If our
systems crash, we in IT must be up and running
again as soon as possible. And to achieve this,
the backup of Microsoft 365 using Keepit plays a
crucial role,” explains Alfred.
About ELIN Group
With increasing regulations, companies are
ELIN is Austria’s leading company in building services
expected to have disaster recovery plans in place
and electrical systems construction, providing both
— Keepit easily secures business critical data to
comprehensive system-integrative and specialized
enable companies to bounce back quickly in case engineering solutions. With 17 dedicated Centers
of any data loss incident. of Competence, ELIN consolidates deep technical
know-how and continuously advances innovation—
Vendor-independent backup and recovery also developing proprietary products (for example in
airport technology). The company generates around
European-born Keepit provides completely
€415 million in annual revenue, has around 1,800
independent backup for companies looking
employees, and maintains 15 locations in Austria and 6
to secure their critical data. With data centers
branches internationally (www.elin.com).
globally, customers can store their data in their
About LB-systems
own region to ensure data sovereignty. “When you
For almost 40 years now, LB-systems has been
follow the current geopolitical situation, European
involved with the topic of data and its availability.
data centers are increasingly important to us,”
From the very beginning, its focus has been on
says Alfred. technology and its in-house technical expertise. LB-
systems delivers solutions that scale with customers’
The intelligent approach to compliance increasing demands – simple, cost-effective, and
Keepit’s platform prioritizes cloud data integrity secure (www.lb-systems.at).
and compliance, providing an independent,
immutable backup environment with flexible
access control and retention options. From “Keepit’s solution is easy and simple to
secure architecture to audit-ready logs, Keepit use, but most importantly, reliable.”
ensures data remains protected, transparent,
- Alfred Pusterhofer,
and aligned with all regulatory requirements.
Head of IT at ELIN Group
Your data. Here today. Here tomorrow.
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data
in a vendor-independent cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and
future-proof data protection. For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on Linkedin.
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved. Microsoft and Microsoft Entra ID are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.
