Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/EN/Keepit-Resilience-under-fire-key-takeaways.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Key takeaways
Resilience under fire
How to safeguard against hybrid attacks
Hybrid warfare, nation-state attacks, and increasing
cyber risk — how resilient is your organization?
As the line between physical and digital conflict blurs, CISOs and IT
leaders face mounting pressure to protect critical infrastructure from
sophisticated and ever-evolving threats. In a rapidly shifting threat
landscape where cybercrime, system failures, and hybrid attacks are
increasing in scale, sophistication, and impact, resilience becomes
paramount. As global dependencies deepen, even small disruptions can
have cascading consequences.
This was the key focus of a recent Keepit webinar, where Kim Larsen, CISO
at Keepit, and Ken Bonefeld Nielsen, Senior Cyber Security and Resilience
Advisor at Norlys, explored how true resilience requires preparation,
prioritization, and the ability to recover fast when the unexpected happens.
The threat landscape: What to consider
The threat landscape is Hybrid attacks blur the line
changing rapidly between peace and conflict
Cybercriminals are more capable than ever — now Nations and organizations are being disrupted
supported by powerful AI — and organizations must without formal declarations of war. Hybrid attacks
be prepared to deal with state actors, supply chain combine cyber, physical, economic, and informa-
risks, and accidental outages. The world is deeply tion domains to create maximum impact. Resilience
interconnected, meaning local disruptions trigger starts with mental resilience: understanding the
global consequences. threat and the scenarios to prepare for.
You can’t protect everything Recovery is as important
— prioritize what matters most as defense
Mission-critical systems and data must be Absolute prevention is impossible. The true resil-
identified, classified, and protected first. Trying ience test is how fast you can restore operations
to defend every asset equally leads to wasted when you’re under attack. Immutable backups,
resources and slow recovery, becoming a threat to clear RPO/RTO objectives, and tested recovery
business continuity. plans are essential.
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved.

--- Page 2 ---
What this means for your organization
• Interdependencies across telecom, energy, infrastructure, and “Your battlefield is your
cloud services increase systemic risk — and no provider can infrastructure, your critical
guarantee 100% uptime. systems, your delivery,
your data. And the most
• Organizations must be prepared for both accidental incidents
important thing here
and intentional attacks — the root cause matters less than the
is to exercise, learning
ability to recover.
about your infrastructure,
• Exercises, scenario planning, and tabletop simulations expose learning how to recover in
vulnerabilities before a real incident does and are your best different scenarios.”
chance to train resilience.
Kim Larsen
• Backup and recovery is the final safety net — losing data has
CISO, Keepit
lasting consequences for your business and needs to be avoided
at all costs.
Resilience starts with intelligent choices
To build continuity and cyber resilience, follow these steps to make sure your organization can defend itself:
Map your critical infrastructure and know your dependencies — this includes servers, key staff, key assets,
suppliers, and more.
Map the risks to your infrastructure and conduct scenario planning: If this scenario happens, then how can you
keep your business running?
Classify data and understand where it lives — including SaaS applications outside IT’s direct control.
Establish a governance structure and data classification across your organization.
Define priorities for data and systems so mission-critical services can be recovered first in the event of an attack.
Involve business stakeholders — governance cannot be left to IT alone, but must be a coordinated effort across
the business.
Test recovery plans and learn from controlled failure before it’s too late. Define your RPOs and exercise thoroughly
to be prepared in case of emergency.
Take control of your data
Read our data governance report for more insight into how to best classify,
protect, and recover your data so you can ensure operational continuity.
Download now
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data in a vendor-independent
cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and future-proof data protection.
For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on Linkedin © 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved.
