Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/case-stories/Keepit-freenet-customer-case-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Customer case
Keepit and freenet:
Resilience in the face
of cyber threats

--- Page 2 ---
Customer case:
freenet
freenet, the largest network-independent telecommunications provider in Germany,
required comprehensive data security measures to protect its Microsoft Office 365 and
Microsoft Entra ID tenants from data loss scenarios. To achieve this, freenet worked with
trusted partner IT sure to choose Keepit’s backup and recovery solution to secure the data of
approximately 3,200 employees and ensure uncomplicated restoration.
Protection against ransomware attacks — safeguarding its IT infrastructure against threats
When searching for a data protection partner, such as ransomware attacks,” remarks Andre
freenet’s focus was on reliably preventing data Quandt, Head of Workplace Services at freenet.
loss or manipulation and ensuring full data
Ensuring business continuity
recovery when needed. The Keepit solution
With ransomware attacks becoming more
runs on a vendor-independent, tamper-proof,
prevalent, the Keepit platform limits the impact
and air-gapped cloud infrastructure, making it
of data breaches by allowing quick recovery,
uniquely strong against ransomware and other
preventing data loss, and reducing downtime
cyberthreats.
— and ultimately ensuring business continuity.
Customers, such as freenet, have ensured access As backups are a prime target for attackers,
to stored data in the event of a system failure or a with 99% of ransomware incidents attempting
compromised user account. “We’ve found Keepit to compromise them, implementing security
to be an effective and reliable tool to secure measures like air-gapping, immutability, and
Microsoft Office 365 and Microsoft Entra ID data encryption fortifies freenet’s cyber resilience.
“One of our primary objectives is to prevent
scenarios in which Microsoft Office 365 user
data is encrypted and rendered inaccessible due
to attacks, or where Entra ID accounts and tenant
configurations are compromised.”
- Andre Quandt,
Head of Workplace Services at freenet

--- Page 3 ---
Customer case:
freenet
Versatility and intuitive operation as benefits
“Keepit stood out to us due to its ease of use and
the capability to back up not only standard Office
365 data, but also specific content such as Teams
tabs, apps, and Entra ID data. This versatility
and intuitive operation were decisive factors in
choosing Keepit,” said Andre Quandt, Head of
Workplace Services at freenet.
“An outage of Microsoft Office services
About freenet
would have significant economic
freenet sees itself as a digital lifestyle provider. Digital
implications, as these services are used by
lifestyle mainly includes telecommunications, TV,
all employees.” internet and mobile devices as well as all services,
applications and equipment associated with mobile
- Andre Quandt,
devices or that can be controlled or used via an
Head of Workplace Services at freenet
intelligent device. With a business model consistently
geared towards customers and their needs, freenet is
Keepit’s platform streamlines data protection
one of Germany’s leading market players with around
with a single, intuitive dashboard that secures 9,5 million subscribers.
SaaS applications like Microsoft 365 and
Salesforce. The platform is seamlessly integrated About IT sure
with customer systems and requires almost IT sure is an established partner of Microsoft and
no training, allowing the location, preview, and Keepit and help medium-sized companies to
maximize their competitive advantage through the
restoration of data with just a few clicks.
efficient use of the Microsoft Cloud. As a Keepit Elite
Partner, IT sure focuses on modern data protection
“The backup functionality for Microsoft
in the cloud — GDPR-compliant, transparent and
Entra ID data was a critical factor in the independent.
decision to select Keepit.” With IT sure’s services and managed cloud services
around Microsoft Azure, Microsoft 365 and Microsoft
- Andre Quandt, Fabric, it increases IT security, communication,
Head of Workplace Services at freenet
collaboration and data culture for its customers. IT
sure can look back on over 20 years of experience in IT
consulting.
Your data. Here today. Here tomorrow.
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data
in a vendor-independent cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and
future-proof data protection. For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on Linkedin.
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved. Microsoft and Microsoft Entra ID are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.
