Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/case-stories/Keepit-SGF-Case-study-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Customer case:
SGF
Keepit’s independent
data centers help SGF
ensure data sovereignty

--- Page 2 ---
Customer case:
SGF
SGF, a recognized partner in the global automotive industry, required backup and recovery
services that would help them comply with all relevant regulations. Keepit offered an easy-to-use
solution that ensured compliance with regulations such as GDPR and secured SGF’s Microsoft
365 data in a vendor-independent cloud they could trust.
European data centers as the clincher critical for our compliance requirements,” says
With increasing regulations, compliance was top Johannes Stärk, Team leader of IT Infrastructure
of mind for SGF when selecting a backup and and Helpdesk at SGF.
recovery provider. “The ‘Right to be Forgotten’
Keepit operates its own data centers in multiple
feature and the presence of data centers in
regions, across the Americas, Europe, UK,
Europe are particularly important for us. These
and Asia-Pacific. The data center regions are
aspects help us meet essential regulations and
completely isolated from one another, offering
standards such as GDPR and TISAX, which are
full data sovereignty.
“One of the standout features for us is the
platform’s ease of use. It makes managing
backups straightforward and efficient, which is a
big plus for our team.”
- Johannes Stärk,
Team leader of IT Infrastructure and Helpdesk at SGF

--- Page 3 ---
Customer case:
SGF
Ease of use to support efficiency
An easy to onboard — and use — platform ensures
that backup and recovery processes are efficient
for any IT team. Keepit’s simple to use platform
gives full visibility into critical data and features,
such as data monitoring, enables companies to
identify anomalies that may be cause for concern.
SGF also found other platform features useful in
their day-to-day operations: “I find the option to
share a backup very useful. It adds an extra layer About SGF:
of flexibility and convenience that we greatly SGF, headquartered in Waldkraiburg, Germany, is a
appreciate,” explained Johannes Stärk. recognized partner of the global automotive industry
and is used in industrial applications across all sectors.
Cost-effective and reliable backup The company was founded in 1946 under the name
A per seat pricing model, including unlimited Süddeutsche Bremsbelag GmbH.
data storage, ensures Keepit’s services are cost- In fiscal year 2024, approximately 680 employees
effective and easy to budget. Alongside staying at five locations worldwide generated sales of €109
million.
compliant, the functionality of the platform and
overall cost were decisive criteria for SGF.
The greatest value, however, comes from knowing
your data is in secure hands. “The reliability
of backup and recovery for our SaaS data is
paramount. Knowing that our data is secure and
can be recovered efficiently gives us peace of
mind,” says Johannes Stärk.

--- Page 4 ---
Resilience starts with
intelligent choices
Recover and restore your SaaS data
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data in a vendor-independent
cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and future-proof data protection.
www.keepit.com
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved.
