Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/case-stories/Keepit-Emmi-customer-case-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Customer case:
Emmi
Emmi selects Keepit, names
the solution a ‘scalable and
future-proof’ choice

--- Page 2 ---
Customer case:
Emmi
Faced with the challenge of finding a comprehensive, globally available backup solution (due
to the expiration of their former solution,) Emmi AG chose Keepit to securely back up their data
on Keepit’s independent cloud. As the largest dairy processing company in Switzerland, Emmi
required a solution like Keepit’s – one with the global infrastructure to support their needs. Emmi
ultimately concluded that Keepit delivered the secure, user-friendly, transparent solution they
were looking for.
Ticks the box for global scalability Emmi also knew they wanted to be able to store
Emmi knew they needed a service provider who their data on an independent cloud – separate
could provide a global and scalable offering – one from Microsoft. Keepit met this requirement with
that could maintain pace with their international the added benefit of offering its backup-as-a-
business activities. Ensuring business continuity service from Swiss data centers. Keepit stores
and smooth operations on a global scale is no two copies of Emmi’s data backups on its own
small feat. Keepit’s scalability was therefore a storage solution in two data centers – ensuring a
significant contributing factor to Emmi’s risk man- clean air gap. This benefit was one of the key
agement goal of ensuring reliable data backup deciding factors in Emmi’s security requirements.
and recovery across countries and time zones.
“With Emmi’s international business activities,
it was also important that technology partners
could provide a globally available and scalable
offering. Keepit is proving to be the ideal
partner for mastering the challenges of a
globally active dairy.”
- Marc Baumann
Lead Data Platform Services, Emmi

--- Page 3 ---
Customer case:
Emmi
Delivers unlimited storage at a fixed price
Securing the offerings of Keepit for Microsoft 365, Keepit
for Azure DevOps, and Keepit for Entra ID, Keepit gives
Emmi the ability to restore data immediately across all
these critical SaaS applications– a significant aspect of
their business continuity and resilience strategy - all at a
transparent, fixed price. No matter the need, Emmi can
effectively minimize downtime and data loss by performing
regular backups without storage space limitations. About Emmi
Emmi is the leading manufacturer of high-
“Overall, Keepit contributes significantly to Emmi’s quality dairy products in Switzerland, with
a strong local presence in 14 countries. The
risk management goals by providing a reliable and
company distributes its quality products
scalable backup solution that secures business
in around 60 countries and manufactures
operations.” these at 57 of its own production sites in
eleven countries. With around 10,000
- Marc Baumann
employees, around 70% of whom work
Lead Data Platform Services, Emmi
outside Switzerland, the Emmi Group
(EMMN) generated sales of CHF 4.2 billion
in 2023.
Provides user-friendly, transparent experience
With the implementation of the solution only taking a few
hours, Emmi was able to start using Keepit productively
straight away. The solution proved to be self-explanatory
and uncomplicated, requiring hardly any operational effort
on Emmi’s part. The Keepit solution fit seamlessly into the
dairy IT company’s existing landscape, supporting the
centralized management of backups.

--- Page 4 ---
Keepit future proof
Take the next step toward protecting your SaaS data
Request demo
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection Headquartered in Copenhagen with offices and data
platform purpose-built for the cloud, by securing centers worldwide, over ten thousand companies
data in a vendor-independent cloud to safeguard trust Keepit for its ease of use and effortless backup
essential business applications, boost cyber and recovery of cloud data.
resilience and future-proof data protection.
HQ - Copenhagen Dallas, Texas London Munich
Denmark United States United Kingdom Germany
Keepit A/S Keepit USA Inc. Keepit Technologies UK, LTD. Keepit Germany GmbH
Per Henrik Lings Allé 4, 7. 3232 McKinney Avenue Suite 820 Warnford Court Maximiliansplatz 22
2100 København, Denmark Dallas TX 75204, USA 29, Throgmorton Street D-80333 München
CVR: 30806883 TIN: 85-358 6335 London EC2N 2AT, UK Amtsgericht München
+45 8987 7792 +1 469-461-4892 Company reg. no.: 13785045 HRB 270094
sales@keepit.com sales@keepit.com sales@keepit.com Geschäftsführer Morten Felsvang
sales@keepit.com
© 2024 Keepit. All rights reserved. www.keepit.com
