Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/case-stories/Keepit-Blaze-Credit-Union-customercase-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Blaze Credit Union
protects multiple
SaaS applications
with Keepit
Customer success story

--- Page 2 ---
Blaze Credit Union
protects multiple
SaaS applications
with Keepit
For financial institutions, protecting SaaS data is essential to maintain security, support
compliance, and ensure business continuity. Blaze Credit Union needed a backup and
recovery solution that could protect critical systems without increasing complexity or
infrastructure requirements.
Grant Aslakson, Director of Information Security Operations at Blaze Credit Union, is
responsible for ensuring business-critical data remains secure, recoverable, and easy to
manage. With sensitive financial data across multiple SaaS applications, the organization
needed reliable protection without added administrative overhead.
LOCATION INDUSTRY EMPLOYEES
USA Finance 480+
Streamlining identity and DevOps data
protection
As SaaS adoption expanded, the team needed
“We protect all of our business
a way to centrally protect identity and DevOps
critical SaaS platforms with
data alongside core productivity applications.
Keepit. Using one platform to
Managing multiple tools would have added
secure all of this data reduces
operational complexity and increased maintenance
requirements. complexity and makes it very
easy to manage.”
Ease of use, strong restoration capabilities,
reliability, and low administrative overhead were Grant Aslakson
Director of Information Security
key evaluation criteria. The team also wanted to
Operations, Blaze Credit Union
avoid expanding its on-premise footprint while
ensuring data remained accessible when needed.
Customer success story 2

--- Page 3 ---
“Keepit can capture data that no other backup solution has been able
to capture. That has been extremely beneficial in our day-to-day use,
especially when restoring files quickly and confidently.”
Grant Aslakson
Director of Information Security Operations, Blaze Credit Union
One platform to reduce complexity Restores that keep teams productive
Using a single platform to protect multiple Since deploying Keepit, Blaze Credit Union has
SaaS applications simplified management reduced its on-premise footprint and simplified
and eliminated the need for separate backup its data protection approach. The platform’s
solutions. Consolidation reduced infrastructure reliability and ease of use allow the security team
requirements and allowed the team to manage to focus on broader priorities, confident that
protection more efficiently. backup data is consistently protected.
Keepit’s independent architecture also provided Fast, reliable restores help support daily
additional assurance that backup data would operations while ensuring important data can be
remain accessible even if issues affected recovered when needed.
major cloud providers. The availability of U.S.
data centers offered flexibility should future
regulatory requirements require data to remain
within the country.
Customer success story 3

--- Page 4 ---
“Keepit has helped us reduce our on-
premise footprint, which is a significant
value add for us.”
Grant Aslakson
Director of Information Security Operations,
Blaze Credit Union
A modern approach to multi-application
SaaS backup
Blaze Credit Union first learned about Keepit
through its IT advisory and consulting partner,
who recommended evaluating the platform. The
solution aligned closely with the organization’s
need for simple, dependable SaaS backup that
supports both operational resilience and long-term
data protection goals.
By consolidating protection for productivity,
identity, and DevOps data into a single platform,
Blaze Credit Union has implemented a modern
approach to multi-application SaaS data
protection that is easy to manage and built for
resilience.
About Blaze Credit Union
Blaze Credit Union is a full-service financial institution serving 255,000 members across Minnesota through 28
branches. As the third-largest credit union in the state, Blaze is committed to helping individuals and communities
thrive by providing competitive financial products, digital banking tools, and local expertise to support saving,
borrowing, and long-term financial planning.
Your data. Here today. Here tomorrow.
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data in a vendor-independent
cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and future-proof data protection.
For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on LinkedIn.
© 05/04/26 Keepit. All rights reserved. Microsoft and Microsoft Entra ID are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.
