Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/product-sheets/Keepit-for-Microsoft-Apps-product-sheet.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Keepit Backup and Recovery
for Microsoft Applications
A single intelligent platform to protect data in key Microsoft applications
The fast pace of SaaS adoption leads to critical gaps in data protection. Many business
leaders mistakenly assume that SaaS apps inherently back up all their data. This frequently
results in costly loss of data and processes, which often can never be recovered.
Built in a sustainable vendor-independent cloud, Keepit securely backs up data from
multiple Microsoft applications and delivers confidence in your ability to recover fast when
mistakes or malicious activity lead to data loss. All in a single platform, ensuring full visibility,
control and compliance with the industry’s best ROI.
Confidence in the Fast recovery across Predictable, stable cost
security of your data applications Keepit’s pricing is based on seats,
Keepit backups are held in a Our intelligent platform provides with no storage tiering, zero fees
vendor- independent cloud, securely fast recovery options for all data, at for retention, and zero cost for data
separated from your production all times. The broad coverage gives ingress or egress. You’ll know in
data and immutable by design. They you full visibility and control across advance exactly what you’ll pay; today,
can’t be manipulated, maliciously Microsoft applications, in a single and tomorrow.
encrypted, or deleted. console.
The risk Financial impact Proven benefit
84% of organizations lost data to Downtime costs an average of Our customers realized a 163%
ransomware in 2023. Only 16% $9,000 per minute or $540,000 ROI when deploying the Keepit
had the ability to recover 100% per hour. solution. Payback was achieved
of their data. Source: Splunk - The Hidden in under 6 months.
Source: ESG Ransomware Costs of Downtime 2024 Source: Forrester Keepit Total
Preparedness Report Economic Impact Study 2024
“Overall, Keepit contributes significantly to
Emmi’s risk management goals by providing
a reliable and scalable backup solution
that secures business operations.”
Marc Baumann, Lead Data Platform Services, Emmi
© Keepit. All rights reserved. Version 1.1

--- Page 2 ---
What’s in the Keepit platform
KEY CAPABILITIES
Intelligent restore options – restore objects in bulk or Unlimited retention – customize retention for up to 99 years
granularly, guaranteeing fast and precise recovery at zero extra cost
Proactive monitoring – Data Protection and Anomaly Outstanding support – included in all subscriptions, Keepit
Detection dashboards help maintain backup integrity and support is there for you whenever you need it
health, and allow for early identification, investigation, and
remediation of risks to data Integrate with SIEM – feed security-related data into SIEM
for further investigation and action
Compliance and reporting – easily document and prove
compliance and data protection efforts Coverage of non-Microsoft apps – extend your control
with our expanding coverage
WHAT WE COVER
Microsoft Microsoft Microsoft Microsoft Microsoft
365 Entra ID Dynamics 365 Azure DevOps Power BI
• SharePoint • Power Pages
• Exchange Online • Power Automate
• OneDrive
• Groups and Teams
Find out how simple
and easy it is to use Keepit
Book a demo
Your data. Here today. Here tomorrow.
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data
in a vendor-independent cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and
future-proof data protection. For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on Linkedin.
® 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved. Microsoft, Microsoft 365, Microsoft Entra ID, Microsoft Power Platform, Microsoft Azure
DevOps and Microsoft Dynamics 365 are are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.
