Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/case-stories/Keepit-Fullsteam-customercase-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Fullsteam strengthens
business continuity
with independent SaaS
backup and recovery
Customer success story

--- Page 2 ---
Fullsteam strengthens
business continuity
with independent SaaS
backup and recovery
Fullsteam provides industry-specific software and integrated payments technology that
help businesses operate efficiently and grow. Its platforms support financial and operational
processes across multiple industries, so downtime has real consequences and business
continuity is nonnegotiable. The US-based company’s data protection strategy supports
more than 2,700 identities and over 108 TB of data across several enterprise SaaS platforms.
LOCATION INDUSTRY EMPLOYEES
USA Fintech 2,100+
Compliance-driven protection at scale
Fullsteam’s requirements are shaped by scale,
complexity, and compliance obligations. The
“Business continuity is critical
organization relies on multiple enterprise SaaS
to Fullsteam because our
applications that require comprehensive backups
platforms support essential
to support disaster recovery and precise, targeted
financial and operational
restores for key business processes. Compliance
restrictions on where data may be stored made processes, and any disruption
regional data residency a critical factor in the directly impacts customers,
evaluation process. revenue, and trust.”
As the team assessed alternatives to its previous JP Peters
backup solution, the priorities were clear: scalability Senior Director of Enterprise Services,
Fullsteam
across multiple SaaS applications, stronger restore
capabilities, and more granular role-based access
control within Entra ID and Microsoft 365.
Customer success story 2

--- Page 3 ---
“We were looking for a solution that provided more granular role-based access
control for individuals to back up or restore data within Entra ID and Microsoft 365.”
Stephen Johnson
Director of Platform Engineering, Fullsteam
The goal was to delegate backup and restore Why Fullsteam chose Keepit
responsibilities within Enterprise IT without Keepit’s US data centers played an important
relying solely on a Global Administrator, while role due to compliance requirements restricting
maintaining strong governance. where Fullsteam data may reside.
Delegated access with full control Vendor independence was another key factor.
Keepit’s detailed permission structure allowed Keepit’s architecture supports an independent
Fullsteam to assign appropriate access across product roadmap, creating opportunities to
multiple layers of the IT organization. That change extend backup services to other SaaS platform
improved operational flexibility while preserving owners within the organization.
control.
Security was equally critical. Encryption
The team also prioritized protecting Entra ID and combined with immutable backups ensures data
Intune configuration policies to ensure identity cannot be altered or deleted, preserving reliable
and device management settings could be recovery points.
recovered if needed.
Keepit’s simple cost structure, including
Fast recovery and continuous data access unlimited storage, has made spending
were essential. Even short outages can predictable. The solution delivers similar cost to
create operational risk, customer impact, and the previous platform, with improved usability
compliance exposure. and expanded opportunity to provide backup
services to other application owners internally.
Cost and functionality were primary drivers,
along with the ability to scale beyond Microsoft to For organizations evaluating their options,
support additional SaaS platforms over time. The Fullsteam’s IT leadership offers clear guidance:
evaluation began after Fullsteam’s VP discovered “If you want a solution that offers reliability,
Keepit at a technology conference and brought flexibility, scalability, and predictable pricing,
it back to the team as a potential replacement Keepit is the answer”, says JP Peters, Senior
provider. Director of Enterprise Services.
Customer success story 3

--- Page 4 ---
“Encryption combined with immutable
backups ensures our data cannot be
altered or deleted, which is essential for
reliable recovery and the security of
our organization.”
Stephen Johnson
Director of Platform Engineering, Fullsteam
Independent recovery by design
Keepit provides a vendor-independent SaaS
data protection platform purpose-built for
cloud environments. By storing backups in an
independent cloud and combining encryption
with immutability, the platform creates a secure
foundation for reliable recovery. Flexible access
controls and scalable architecture enable
organizations to protect multiple applications while
maintaining governance and compliance.
For Fullsteam, that means stronger operational
resilience without added complexity, and confi-
dence that its data is here today and here tomorrow.
About Fullsteam
Fullsteam provides software and payments technology that help businesses across a wide range of industries
operate efficiently and grow. The company delivers purpose-built software for retail stores, vineyards, ground
transportation providers, hospitality businesses, and many other everyday industries. Its vision is to give business
owners all the tools they need in one place by embedding payments, marketing services, and insurance directly
into their business management systems. Fullsteam’s purpose is to help customers grow by delivering efficient,
tailored solutions for each industry it serves.
Your data. Here today. Here tomorrow.
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data in a vendor-independent
cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and future-proof data protection.
For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on LinkedIn.
© 05/12/26 Keepit. All rights reserved. Microsoft and Microsoft Entra ID are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.
