Source: https://www.keepit.com/Assets/Pdf/Keepit_SIG_Customer_Case.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Customer Story: SIG
Global Packaging Group SIG is the leading systems and solutions provider for
aseptic packaging, generating €1.7 billion in revenue
SIG Chooses Keepit for and producing 35+ billion carton packs in 2018 alone.
While SIG ensures products are delivered efficiently and
Speed, Security, and sustainably, Keepit ensures their business-critical M365
data is secure and easily available 24/7.
Simplicity
We’ve been using Veeam for on-
premise backup, but Keepit is a better
fit for our cloud-first strategy.
Jeffrey Chen
Senior Global Microsoft Infrastructure Specialist, SIG
With SIG switching to a cloud-centric infrastructure,
Senior Global Microsoft Infrastructure Specialist Jeffrey
Chen began looking for a cloud-based backup and
recovery solution that would ensure business continuity
and guarantee a 99-year data retention period. He
settled on Keepit.
Page 1

--- Page 2 ---
Customer Story: SIG
Keepit’s solution is Saving Big on Admin Time
With Keepit, SIG safeguards their data in a private,
cost-efficient - but more independent cloud guaranteeing fast and easy access
–even in the event of data loss. Keepit’s intuitive backup
importantly, it saves and recovery solution provides granular search and
restore features that don’t require any admin training.
valuable administrative
Instead of investing time on costly hardware and
time. infrastructure setup, Keepit frees up time for the SIG IT
department to focus on tasks that keep their business
running 24/7.
Jeffrey Chen
Senior Global Microsoft Infrastructure Specialist
Keepit’s user-friendliness is a financial
SIG
win-win.
Jeffrey Chen
Fast Set-Up and Easy Onboarding
Keepit offers a robust, yet simple backup solution that
can be set up in a matter of minutes. Furthermore, a
dedicated customer success and support staff ensure the
trial and onboarding process is truly efficient.
Keepit’s customer success and support
staff are really easy to work with –
I wouldn’t hesitate to recommend
Keepit to any business.
Jeffrey Chen
Complete M365 Coverage = Complete Peace of Mind
Keepit offers the market’s most complete coverage of
M365, guaranteeing data availability - always. With
ransomware attacks on the rise, SIG needs to ensure
downtime is not an issue. Regardless of whether SIG’s
daily activities happen on MS Teams or SharePoint,
Keepit provides a comprehensive backup solution that
ensures everyone from Mr. Chen to the legal and finance
departments sleep peacefully at night.
Page 2

--- Page 3 ---
Customer Story: SIG
Keepit has the expertise to support
any enterprise with their journey to the
cloud, viable, safe storage of essential
cloud SaaS data.
Jeffrey Chen
About SIG
A leading systems and solutions provider for aseptic packaging, SIG
was founded in 1853 and is headquartered in Neuhausen, Switzerland.
They employ 5,000 people worldwide and have customers in over 60
countries. In 2018, SIG produced more than 35 billion carton packs and
generated €1.7 billion in revenue.
Get in touch with Keepit
Reach out for a talk and get a free 30-day trial.
+45 8987 7792
sales@keepit.com
Page 3
