Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/case-stories/Keepit-HandwerkskammerAachen-customer-case-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Customer case
Convenient and
secure backup for
Handwerkskammer Aachen

--- Page 2 ---
Customer case:
Handwerkskammer Aachen
With over 17,400 member companies, the Aachen Chamber of Skilled Crafts is a driving force in
promoting skilled trades training and innovation in its region. As a public corporation, it assumes
a variety of tasks assigned by the state, based on the Crafts Code (Handwerksordnung) and
its statutes. In search of reliable and compliant backup, the Chamber chose Keepit after a
recommendation from partner IT sure.
Stringent data protection requirements The IT team aimed to find a convenient backup
The Aachen Chamber of Skilled Crafts faced solution for their Microsoft 365 environment,
stringent data protection requirements, with key criteria including GDPR compliance,
including GDPR compliance and adherence to user-friendliness, and reliability. Keepit provides
federal and state data protection laws. “With independent backup of eleven business-critical
250 users, our organization needed a solution SaaS applications, securing customer data
that could handle sensitive personal data and in seven data center regions to ensure data
ensure business continuity, as our tasks and sovereignty.
responsibilities are regulated by federal law,”
explains Markus Burgold, Head of IT Department
at Handwerkskammer Aachen.
“European data centers and vendor
independence were also crucial factors in
choosing Keepit.”
- Markus Burgold,
Head of IT Department at Handwerkskammer Aachen

--- Page 3 ---
Customer case:
Handwerkskammer Aachen
Convenient cloud backup
With Keepit, the Aachen Chamber of Crafts
achieved their goal of convenient cloud backup
for their Microsoft 365 environment. Keepit
was able to provide a solution for backing up all
crucial cloud data (Exchange Online, SharePoint,
OneDrive), ensuring fast recovery in case of data
loss, and supporting the Right to Be Forgotten
(RTBF). The Aachen Chamber of Crafts also
appreciated Keepit’s user-friendliness and About Handwerkskammer Aachen
reliability. Security measures such as encryption Since its founding on April 24, 1900, the Aachen
and data immutability were non-negotiable for Chamber of Skilled Crafts has strengthened,
supported, and further developed skilled crafts
the organization.
in the region. For over a century, the Chamber has
Road to success through partnership supported, promoted, and advised skilled crafts
businesses in the Aachen City Region and the districts
The Aachen Chamber of Crafts became aware
of Düren, Heinsberg, and Euskirchen.
of Keepit through a recommendation in their
With over 17,400 member companies, the Aachen
network. IT sure, an established partner of
Chamber of Skilled Crafts is a strong voice and a
Microsoft and Keepit, played a key role in the
driving force in promoting skilled trades training and
resulting cooperation. As a Keepit Elite Partner, innovation.
IT sure focuses on modern data protection in
About IT sure
the cloud, helping medium-sized companies
IT sure, an established partner of Microsoft and Keepit,
maximize their competitive advantage through
helps medium-sized companies to maximize their
the efficient use of the Microsoft Cloud.
competitive advantage through the efficient use of
the Microsoft Cloud. As a Keepit Elite Partner, IT sure
focuses on modern data protection in the cloud —
“The solution’s fast recovery capabilities
GDPR-compliant, transparent and independent.
and GDPR compliance were particularly
With IT sure’s services and managed cloud services
beneficial to us. We’ve experienced
around Microsoft Azure, Microsoft 365 and Microsoft
improved data protection and business Fabric, it increases IT security, communication,
continuity with Keepit.” collaboration and data culture for its customers. IT
sure can look back on over 20 years of experience in IT
- Markus Burgold, consulting.
Head of IT Department at Handwerkskammer Aachen
Your data. Here today. Here tomorrow.
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data
in a vendor-independent cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and
future-proof data protection. For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on Linkedin.
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved. Microsoft and Microsoft Entra ID are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.
