Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/Keepit-Statement-on-sustainability-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Statement on
sustainability initiatives
August 12, 2025
At Keepit, sustainability is an integral part of how we operate and innovate. We are
dedicated to reducing our environmental impact while delivering secure, reliable
SaaS data protection to our customers.
Keepit’s vendor-independent cloud, dedicated to SaaS data protection and built on a
blockchain-verified solution, supports key business applications like Microsoft 365,
Microsoft Entra ID, Google Workspace, and Salesforce.
Keepit A/S (CVR. No. 30806883), a Danish public limited liability company, privately
held, and its affiliates (collectively referred to as “Keepit”, “we” or “our”) adhere to the
same sustainability standards as detailed in this statement. Headquartered in
Copenhagen, with offices and data centers globally, we are dedicated to combining
technological excellence with environmentally responsible practices.
Sustainability in our operations
At Keepit, we are committed to practicing our business in an environmentally responsible
way. Our environmental initiatives include:
• Increasing the energy efficiency of our operations, primarily within our data
centers and offices.
• Reducing waste through sustainable office practices and digital workflows.
• Minimizing our environmental impact across the value chain.
• Environmental considerations are an essential part of how we operate and evolve
as a company.
Efficient and responsible cloud computing
Cloud computing is energy efficient compared to on-premises computing solutions and
although the direct impact of SaaS companies on the environment may be relatively low
compared to other industries, Keepit recognizes the importance of environmental
sustainability and is aware that data centers consume large amounts of power,
contributing to our environmental footprint.

--- Page 2 ---
To minimize this impact, Keepit has taken several proactive measures:
• We source colocation services from vendors that can document that most, if not
all, power used for our services comes from renewable sources.
• Our data centers in EMEA and Americas are powered by 100% renewable
energy, as documented through green power certificates.
• Powering data centers with clean energy has always been a core priority, and it
is our mission to operate as a carbon-free, ecologically responsible company.
We work closely with our colocation providers, who have implemented various initiatives
to reduce overall power consumption, furthering our efforts to reduce environmental
impact. Moreover, Keepit’s core technology, primarily our file system, was built for speed
and simplicity. As a positive side effect:
• It leads to lower energy consumption
• Allows us to utilize 100% of disk capacity without performance degradation
• Improves overall efficiency of our infrastructure, resulting in reduced
environmental impact
Governance and responsible business conduct
Ethical governance and responsible business conduct are essential to how we operate.
Keepit adheres to the OECD Guidelines for multinational enterprises on responsible
business conduct, as amended from time to time (the “OECD Guidelines”). The OECD
Guidelines set the minimum standards for our operations and are embedded in Keepit’s
Code of Conduct, which serves as our benchmark for acting ethically, transparently, and
sustainably, respecting human rights, the environment, and fair business practices.
Keepit’s Code of Conduct can be found at: https://www.keepit.com/code-of-conduct/.
Every person working for Keepit, whether permanently or temporarily employed, is subject
to the Code of Conduct, including management and the board of directors. The code
applies across all countries in which we operate and to every person working on behalf of
Keepit. Managers are responsible for ensuring that the Code of Conduct is known and
upheld by all employees within their respective areas of responsibility. We also expect our
suppliers and their subcontractors to adhere to the Code of Conduct or equivalent
standards and to demonstrate compliance through documentation when required.
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved

--- Page 3 ---
Sustainable workplace culture
As a SaaS vendor providing backup and recovery solutions, we understand the
importance of fostering an environmentally conscious culture within our organization.
Our office policies reflect this commitment, including:
• Energy-saving measures in our offices
• Waste recycling programs
• Digital workflows to minimize paper usage
We believe that consistent efforts across our teams meaningfully contribute to a greener
workplace. Our services are designed to be delivered remotely, which reduces the need
for physical infrastructure and transportation-related emissions. Additionally, we prioritize
digital communication and documentation. At Keepit, we aim to reduce paper use,
supporting forest conservation and reducing water and soil pollution tied to paper
production.
Continuous commitment
We believe that raising awareness and fostering a culture of environmental responsibility
is essential to driving meaningful change. At Keepit, we are proud of the measures we
have implemented and remain focused on strengthening and expanding our
sustainability efforts.
Environmental responsibility is not a one-time initiative, it’s a continuous commitment
embedded in how we build, grow, and deliver our services. As we evolve, we will
continue to explore new ways to enhance our sustainability practices and reinforce our
dedication to environmental responsibility.
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved
