Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/EN/Keepit-ROI-of-ransomware-recovery-webinar-takeaway.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
The ROI of ransomware recovery
Understanding the return on investment (ROI) for
ransomware recovery is essential for businesses.
Total Economic Impact Key statistics
In 2024, Keepit commissioned a Total Economic • The Forrester TEI study revealed that Keepit’s
Impact (TM) study by Forrester Consulting which solution provided a return on investment
revealed significant findings. (ROI) of 163% over three years.
Based on interviews with Keepit customers, • Net present value of over $800,000: The same
Forrester created a three-year financial model to TEI study indicated that the net present value
determine the financial benefit of using Keepit to of Keepit’s solution was over $800,000.
protect data in SaaS workloads. The study shows
• 90% reduction in recovery time: Customers
that Keepit’s solution offered a 163% ROI over three
using Keepit’s solution reported a 90%
years, with a net present value of over $800,000.
reduction in the time needed for targeted
This demonstrates the substantial economic restores after ransomware attacks.
benefits that can be achieved through strategic
• Payback within 6 months: Through its various
investments in ransomware recovery capabilities.
benefits, the Keepit solution was shown to have
a payback period of less than 6 months.
Source: The Total Economic Impact™ Of Keepit SaaS Data Protection,
Forrester Study
This is especially important as Forrester found a concerning gap when it comes to disaster recovery plans
for SaaS platforms, per their research on the state of disaster recovery preparedness in the market.
Speaking on our recent webinar, Forrester senior analyst Brent Ellis said:
“[Out of 2000 enterprise software decision makers], 87% said they’re either currently using a SaaS
application, or they plan to in the next 12 months. But [in a separate survey when I asked disaster recovery
professionals] if SaaS platforms are within the scope of their organization’s disaster recovery planning,
only 36% had a wholehearted yes. And when I asked does your organization currently backup your SaaS
hosted data? 14% said no. And if you’re talking about disaster recovery planning and 14% don’t do
backup of that data, that leaves a big question mark about whether you’re actually able to recover from a
particular disaster to that platform.”
Sources:
- Keepit Webinar March 2024, ‘The ROI of ransomware recovery’, featuring Forrester
- Forrester’s Software 1 Survey, 2023
- Forrester/Disaster recovery journal, November 2023, Disaster recovery practices and preparedness survey
© 2024 Keepit. All rights reserved.

--- Page 2 ---
Risk factors for SaaS data
resilience and disaster recovery
1. Shared platform vulnerabilities 7. Role-based access control (RBAC) issues
• Dependency on shared infrastructure increases risk exposure. • Excessive privileges granted to users.
• Potential for simultaneous failure of multiple systems. • Increased risk of unauthorized data access and changes.
2. Exfiltration threats 8. Platform misconfigurations
• Unauthorized data access and transfer by cybercriminals. • Errors in configuring SaaS platforms.
• Risk of sensitive data being stolen or leaked. • Increased vulnerability to cyberattacks and data breaches.
3. Cyberattacks 9. API exploits
• Ransomware targeting SaaS platforms. • Attackers leveraging API vulnerabilities to access data.
• API exploits used to gain unauthorized access. • Risk of data manipulation and unauthorized actions.
4. Limited version retention 10. Vendor dependency
• Inability to recover older versions of data. • Reliance on SaaS vendors for data protection.
• Increased risk of data loss due to limited backup versions. • Potential risks if the vendor’s security measures are inadequate.
5. Malicious data changes 11. Insufficient backup solutions
• Intentional alterations to data by internal or external actors. • Lack of comprehensive backup and recovery plans.
• Difficulty in detecting and reversing malicious modifications. • Risk of extended downtime and data loss in disaster scenarios.
6. Accidental data changes 12. Compliance and regulatory risks
• Unintentional data deletions or modifications by users. • Failure to meet data protection and privacy regulations.
• Potential for significant operational disruption. • Potential for legal and financial penalties.
It’s vital for organizations to assess and analyze risk profiles for SaaS platforms in use, keeping these risk
factors in mind, and understand how this affects their overall resilience. Based on these assessments,
businesses can develop prioritized disaster recovery plans.
Strategies for enhancing resilience
To enhance resilience against ransomware prevent data loss and facilitate quick recovery
and other cyberthreats, organizations should in case of an attack. Finally, maintaining strong
implement several key strategies. First, conducting contracts with SaaS vendors is vital to ensure
formal risk assessments is essential to identify organizational resilience and security requirements
critical infrastructure and data assets. Based are met.
on these assessments, businesses can develop
These contracts should clearly define the vendor’s
prioritized disaster recovery plans tailored to their
responsibilities and the security measures taken to
specific needs and vulnerabilities.
protect data.
Additionally, ensuring that data backups are
immutable and tamper proof is crucial. Regular
testing and verification of backup integrity can
© 2024 Keepit. All rights reserved.

--- Page 3 ---
What does good recovery look like?
Checklist for disaster recovery and business continuity:
□ You have completed a risk assessment to identify the most critical infrastructure and data assets to protect.
□ You have created a prioritized, granular DR plan supported by your software.
□ You have backed up all your mission-critical data.
□ You regularly test and verify your recovery processes.
□ You are recovering from backups that are immutable and tamper-proof.
□ Your backups remain available on a separate, air-gapped infrastructure.
Here at Keepit we:
Are specialized on SaaS data protection Deploy leading security measures
We support a wide range of commonly We deploy leading security measures,
used SaaS platforms, such as M365, Entra keeping your data safe in a fully air-
ID, Salesforce, and more. Our solution is gapped, separated environment with
purpose-built and specifically designed immutability by default and encryption
for protecting cloud SaaS data. both in transfer and at rest.
Are a completely independent Hold relevant security certifications
backup provider As your trusted cloud backup vendor, we’re
We maintain our own cloud infrastructure serious about the security of your data.
and our own data centers across the Keepit holds both the ISO/IEC 27001:2013
world. Vendor independence means certification and the ISAE 3402-II
you’ll always have access to your certification (audited by Deloitte annually).
data, even when disaster strikes.
Continue the conversation
Watch the on-demand webinar
Watch it now
Keepit provides next-level SaaS data protection purpose-built for the cloud, by securing data in a vendor-independent
cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience and future-proof data protection.
For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on Linkedin
© 2024 Keepit. All rights reserved.
