Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/EN/Keepit-Surviving-Ransomware-Webinar-takeaways.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Surviving ransomware:
Data protection insights
and strategies
ESG conducted a ransomware study for the
What is being affected by
second time in early 2023 (2023 Ransomware
ransomware attacks?
preparedness: Lighting the Way to Readiness
and Mitigation) surveying 600 enterprise IT and The study found that the top target areas for
cybersecurity professionals across North America attackers include key core IT infrastructure,
and Western Europe. On 28 November 2023, storage systems, network connectivity, messaging
Keepit and ESG organized an industry webinar to and collaboration infrastructure, and identity
discuss the findings of the report. The webinar and access. Cloud-based data is an increasingly
panel included Pavul Robichaux, Microsoft MVP and popular target for ransomware attacks as well as
Keepit’s Senior Director of Product Management, the data protection infrastructure and
Dave Gruber, Principal Cybersecurity Analyst, ESG mechanisms themselves.
and Christophe Bertrand, Practice Director, ESG.
Backups are a key target for ransomware attacks as
The report found that ransomware attacks are victims will be more likely to pay the ransom if their
becoming so prevalent that it’s a matter of when, ability to recover data is affected. However, there’s
not if. no guarantee that all your data will be recovered
after a successful ransomware attack. The ESG
• 75% of organizations had a successful
study showed that only 16% of respondents were
ransomware attack in the last 12 months.
able to recover 100% of their lost data.
• 16% of organizations experienced a
ransomware attack on a weekly basis.
Backups are a key target
Level of concern that data protection Nearly one in three express
copies could also become infected or serious concerns about the
corrupted by ransomware attacks security of their backups
Column2
29% very
concerned
45%
somewhat
concerned
22% not very
concerned
4% not at all
concerned
Very concerned Somewhat concerned Not very concerned Not at all concerned

--- Page 2 ---
Typically, not all data is recovered
Percentage of data organizations were able to recover
3% 11% 28% 42% 16%
Recovered Recovered Recovered Recovered Recovered
25% or less 26% to 50% 51% to 75% 76% to 99% 100%
of their data of their data of their data of their data of their data
How to build security strategies that protect
from ransomware attacks?
Key terms
1. Invest in preventative security controls. For example,
network security, endpoint security, backup and
Air gapping gives you a level
of protection that makes your disaster recovery infrastructure security and
backup somewhat tamper proof. e-mail security are great places to start.
It means disconnecting the
2. Test your capabilities continuously, including your
backup copies from mainstream
production – ensuring they don’t recovery operations. This also helps you to understand
share the same risk profile. what data is mission critical for your company and
what the sequence is to recover lost data.
Immutability means your data
source can’t be tampered
3. Be confident in your disaster recovery plans, including the
with nor deleted.
immutability of your backup data. A good disaster recovery
plan is jointly prepared within the company to ensure all sides
of data protection and cyber security are considered.
Only 40% organizations
“The research showed that
said they take extra
very few people had the
measures to protect all of
ability to recover 100%
their backups.
of mission critical data. “

--- Page 3 ---
What does a winning ransomware recovery
and data protection strategy look like?
Data protection checklist Evaluate your current ransomware
recovery plan and data
ຉ 100% of your mission-critical
protection strategy
data is protected.
ຉ How do you score on the data
ຉ Your backups are immutable
protection checklist?
and tamper-proof.
ຉ How much of your mission-critical data
ຉ Your backups are stored on a
are you confident you can recover
separate, air-gapped infrastructure.
ຉ Are there additional steps you can
ຉ You regularly test and verify
take to improve your resilience and
your recovery processes.
strengthen your last line of defense?
Here in Keepit we:
Are a completely independent
Deploy leading security measures,
backup provider with no
such as air gapping, immutability,
dependencies on any public cloud.
and encryption both in transfer
Vendor independence means you’ll
and at rest
always have access to your data,
even when disaster strikes
Store data in seven regions, in data Are ISO/IEC 27001:2013 certified -
centers that don’t have any shared the entire company and all locations
components with any public
cloud provider
Continue the conversation
Watch the webinar now on demand
Watch it now
Read the ESG report
