Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/case-stories/Keepit-FTF-Customer-Case-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Customer case
Keepit and the French Tennis Federation:
A grand slam for
data protection

--- Page 2 ---
Customer case:
French Tennis Federation
The French Tennis Federation, tasked with the organization, coordination, and promotion of the
sport, chose Keepit to independently back up its Microsoft 365, Microsoft Entra ID, and Power
BI data. Since 2022, the federation, headquartered at the famous Roland Garros stadium, has
trusted Keepit to secure its data — facilitating important work developing tennis through 8,000
tennis clubs across the country. The partnership was made possible by SCC France, a long-
standing partner of the federation.
The search for vendor-independent backup cloud-based applications, and my focus was
Realizing that Microsoft would not be responsible to find a European backup solution that was as
for recovering lost data, the French Tennis independent as possible. I did some research
Federation began to search for a vendor- and found a company called Keepit in Denmark,”
independent backup and recovery solution explains Frank Labat, IT Technical Director at the
that would also be easy to implement, agile, French Tennis Federation.
and secure. “At the time, we had no backup for
“Keepit has brought us what we initially wanted
— independent backup. It has also brought us
quite specific uses that we hadn’t identified at
the beginning, such as centralized and traceable
archiving and the ability to integrate everything
into the same platform.”
- Frank Labat,
IT Technical Director at the French Tennis Federation

--- Page 3 ---
Customer case:
French Tennis Federation
Keepit owns and operates its own cloud and data
centers, making sure backed-up data is always
online, even in cases of vendor downtime. This
was exactly what the French Tennis Federation
was looking for — backing up their data in an
environment separated from their production
environment.
Expected and unforeseen benefits
Due to the nature of its operations, the French
Tennis Federation deals with a lot of seasonal About the French Tennis Federation
employees. This means a lot of arrivals and The French Tennis Federation (French: Fédération
departures, and more data to process — and française de tennis, FFT) is the governing body for
tennis in France. It was founded in 1920, and is tasked
recover. Keepit helps to facilitate this process
with the organization, coordination and promotion of
while ensuring the security of the data being
the sport. It is recognized by the International Tennis
handled. Federation and by the French Minister for Sports. Its
headquarters are at the Roland Garros stadium in
Continued partnership
France.
A relationship that started with backing up
Microsoft 365 has grown into a well-established,
developing partnership in which the federation
has integrated Power BI and Microsoft Entra ID
with the Keepit platform.
About SCC France
“There are many new developments in the pipeline With a turnover of more than €2.7 billion and more than
for Microsoft. The plan is that every time we 3,300 employees in France, SCC France supports the
digital transformation of its clients in three areas: the
add new assets to Microsoft 365, they can be
development of uses and user experience, the mod-
integrated with Keepit,” says Frank Labat.
ernization of IT infrastructures and opening up to the
Cloud, and the deployment of network and security
See how the French Tennis Federation, SCC
strategies. Learn more: https://www.france.scc.com/
France, and Keepit work together to protect
critical data — watch the video here: https://
www.keepit.com/customers/french-tennis-
federation/
Your data. Here today. Here tomorrow.
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data
in a vendor-independent cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and
future-proof data protection. For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on Linkedin.
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved. Microsoft and Microsoft Entra ID are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.
