Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/product-sheets/Keepit-Google%20Workspace-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Keepit Backup and Recovery
for Google Workspace
Protect team collaboration with vendor-independent backup
Google Workspace is the heart of your business productivity and collaboration, storing
critical data that should be protected. While Google ensures infrastructure uptime, they don’t
safeguard against all forms of data loss. With the shared responsibility model, “you remain
responsible for your access controls and the data that you choose to store in the application.”*
Without third-party backup and long-term retention, there’s a real risk of permanent loss with
costly operational and financial consequences.
Keepit offers vendor-independent backup for Google Workspace, keeping your data secure
and easily recoverable, your business compliant, and your teams productive, no matter what.
*Source: Shared responsibilities and shared fate on Google Cloud
Time-saving usability Assured data integrity Unified visibility
Keepit is quick to set up and sim- Keepit’s immutable backups en- A unified platform for all backups
ple to use, giving you fast, effort- sure your Google Workspace data across critical SaaS applications
less Google Workspace recovery can’t be tampered with, giving provides transparency, visibility,
whenever you need it, no techni- you full confidence in compliance and easy reporting for managers
cal skills required. and audit-readiness. and leadership.
The risk The impact Proven benefit
85% of organizations reported 90% of those reporting data loss Keepit customers were able to reduce the
at least one data loss incident in incidents suffered consequences, time needed to restore data for priority
the past 12 months. including business disruption, revenue users by 90% after a data loss incident.
loss, and reputational damage. Source: Forrester Total Economic Impact Study 2024
Source: Proofpoint “The 2024 Data Loss
Landscape” Source: Proofpoint “The 2024 Data Loss Landscape”
“Keepit is a set-and-forget solution, and
everything is available from one screen - so we
can check how much data is being backed up
and ensure everything is running smoothly.”
Laura Riley - CEO, Mums In Need

--- Page 2 ---
Take control of your Google Workspace data with Keepit
KEY CAPABILITIES
Instant search Unlimited retention Proactive monitoring
Find what you need fast with Keepit’s Customize retention for up to 99 years Data Protection and Anomaly
powerful search. Use filters to locate with no extra costs, including data Detection Dashboards help maintain
emails, docs, and more. Restore or archiving for inactive users. backup integrity and health and allow
share with a secure link with one click. for early identification, investigation,
Highest security and remediation of risks to data.
Multiple restore options Keepit’s vendor-independent
Restore objects in bulk or granularly to cloud and immutable-by-design
guarantee fast and precise recovery. architecture ensure your backups stay
protected.
WHAT WE COVER
All Google
Google drive Gmail Forms
shared drives
Google Items in Find complete
Google tasks
calendar the trash coverage here.
Secure your Google
Workspace in minutes
with Keepit.
Get a demo
Your data. Here today. Here tomorrow.
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data
in a vendor-independent cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and
future-proof data protection. For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on Linkedin.
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved. Microsoft and Microsoft Entra ID are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.
