Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/product-sheets/Keepit-Microsoft-Dynamics-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Keepit Backup and Recovery
for Microsoft Dynamics 365
Keep processes running with vendor-independent backup
From CRM and finance to supply chain and HR, Dynamics 365 powers the core of your
business. But if data is lost or systems fail, sales stop and operations stall.
Native Dynamics 365 tools offer only basic protection and limited retention, and under
Microsoft’s shared responsibility model*, you’re still accountable for your data.
Keepit solves this with intelligent tools to back up and restore Dynamics 365 data and
metadata in minutes, so your business can keep running without interruption.
* Microsoft Dynamics 365 guidance, implementation guide
Time-saving usability Flexible restore options Be confident that you can recover
Easy to implement and intuitive, Keepit Restore records flexibly and granu- Have all your data always at your fingertips
requires minimal expertise to use. You larly, from specific entities to point- with comprehensive, automated backups
can focus on managing your Dynamics in-time snapshots. Keepit prioritizes of your data — including metadata and
365 environment instead of complex recovery plans to get your business custom tables.
backup processes. running again — fast.
The risk Financial impact Proven benefit
85% of organizations reported 90% of those reporting data loss Keepit customers were able to reduce the
at least one data loss incident incidents suffered consequences, time needed to restore data for priority
in the past 12 months. including business disruption, revenue users by 90% after a data loss incident.
loss, and reputational damage.
Source: Proofpoint “The 2024 Data Loss Source: Forrester Total Economic Impact Study 2024
Landscape”
Source: Proofpoint “The 2024 Data Loss Landscape”
“We searched the market extensively for backup
and restore products ahead of choosing Keepit
as the right solution for the University’s needs for
long-term data retention.”
Lasse Thomsen, Information Systems
Manager, Oxford University Innovation Ltd

--- Page 2 ---
Take control of your Dynamics 365 data with Keepit
KEY CAPABILITIES
The best coverage Unlimited retention Proactive monitoring
Keepit delivers the most Customize retention for up to 99 Gain full visibility into backup health
comprehensive, granular backup for years with no extra costs. Even as with Data Protection and Anomaly
all key Microsoft 365 applications, attachments pile up and data grows, Detection Dashboards, enabling early
offering unmatched coverage in the you can safely store everything identification and quick remediation
market. without added complexity. of potential risks to your Dynamics
365 data.
Instant search Selective metadata restore
Find what you need fast with Keepit’s Restore customizations such as Highest security
powerful search. Use filters to locate entities, fields, and relationships Keepit’s vendor-independent
entities, metadata, and tables and without rolling back the entire cloud and immutable-by-design
then restore or share with a secure link Dynamics 365 environment. architecture ensure your backups stay
in one click. protected.
COVERAGE
All entities’ associated metadata and all custom tables for the following applications
Dynamics 365 Dynamics 365
Dynamics Sales
Field Service Customer Insights
Dynamics 365 Dynamics 365 Find complete
Customer Service Project Operations coverage here.
Secure your Microsoft Dynamics
365 data in minutes with Keepit
Book a demo
Your data. Here today. Here tomorrow.
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data
in a vendor-independent cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and
future-proof data protection. For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on Linkedin.
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved. Microsoft and Microsoft Entra ID are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.
