Source: https://www.keepit.com/Assets/Pdf/Keepit%20-%20Leading%20SaaS%20Data%20Security%20-%20eGuide.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
E-Guide
Leading SaaS Data Security
Raising the Bar for Data Protection in the Cloud Era
May 2021
Copenhagen

--- Page 2 ---
Foreword
Information security has never been more important—or challenging—than it is today. There
are growing threats from external actors and insiders, new systems and software are being
deployed faster and more frequently than ever before, the zero-trust model is leading to
widespread changes in visibility and access control, and economic pressures demand that
costs be reduced or avoided altogether.
At the same time, Chief Information Security Officers (CISOs) also need to ensure
appropriate data privacy and protection throughout the company’s entire tech stack.
These evolving demands exist in parallel to a paradigm shift in which a range of workloads—
from customer-facing applications to business-critical operational systems—have migrated
from on-premises appliances and servers to third-party cloud environments.
The cloud brings the agility and availability enterprises require, but it also introduces new
challenges. Perhaps foremost among these issues, but one of the least-recognized, is a
shared data responsibility model and its important implications for business continuity
planning, in general, and disaster recovery specifically.
Keepit’s mission is to protect data in the cloud. Since 2013, we have worked tirelessly to
purpose-build an efficient and—above all—secure data protection solution that provides
simple, reliable, cost-effective, and vendor-neutral backup and recovery for software-as-a-
service (SaaS) workloads.
With deep roots and 20+ years of experience building best-in-class data protection and
hosting services, we recognized that the only way to create such a solution was to architect
it from the ground up—so that’s exactly what we did. The output of our efforts is The Keepit
Cloud.
When presented with a new solution, it is only natural—and prudent—to ask questions. We
understand, and we would expect no less from security professionals. Fortunately, we believe
we have created the industry’s best SaaS data backup and recovery solution.
We believe in transparency, because it enables prospective buyers and technical evaluators
to make informed decisions. Accordingly, we have prepared this document to proactively
address the most common inquiries about our solution, to explain what we built and why we
made certain decisions, and—frankly—to show how our solution is fundamentally different
from, and meaningfully superior to, other products in the market.
We sincerely hope this guide answers your questions and we would greatly value the
opportunity to respond to any that we may not have anticipated.
Happy reading,
Jakob Østergaard Hegelund
CTO at Keepit
Keepit is a software company specializing in cloud data backup and recovery, deriving 2
from 20+ years of experience in building best-in-class data protection services at scale.

--- Page 3 ---
Table of Contents
Executive Summary 4
Introduction 5
Why Keepit Built a Dedicated Private Cloud 6
True backup requires a separate logical infrastructure 6
Gaining control and managing hidden risks 8
Raising the Bar for Secure SaaS Backups 9
Vendor-agnostic storage 9
Resilience and data immutability 11
Secure, reliable and change-based long-term data storage 12
Unparalleled easy and fast data recovery 13
Security Standards, Practices, and Features 14
Physical security 14
Operational security 16
Software development life cycle 18
Security Features 19
Conclusions 20
Keepit is a software company specializing in cloud data backup and recovery, deriving 3
from 20+ years of experience in building best-in-class data protection services at scale.

--- Page 4 ---
Executive Summary
Backing up cloud SaaS data is the responsibility of the SaaS customer, not the vendor.
However, this reality is not yet well understood within the marketplace, and with that lack of
understanding comes significant risk: Gartner estimates that, by 2022, 70% of organizations
will have suffered a disruption due to unrecoverable data loss in a SaaS application.
Similarly, many organizations have not yet recognized that backing up SaaS data within the
same public cloud infrastructure that hosts their primary data fails to provide the needed
assurances—since an event impacting that public cloud could render both the primary and
backup data inaccessible, even with geographic distribution.
Only an infrastructure completely independent from public cloud environments can provide
true backup for SaaS data. This premise led us to build, from the ground up, The Keepit
Cloud—a vendor-neutral and dedicated SaaS data backup solution that is resilient, secure,
and exceptionally easy to use.
We architected the solution with a security-first design, incorporating innovative features that
meet the needs of even the most demanding enterprises, and we extend that same care to
its physical and operational security. As an added benefit, constructing and managing our
own infrastructure also allows us to offer our backup service with a predictable, all-inclusive
pricing structure.
Keepit is a software company specializing in cloud data backup and recovery, deriving 4
from 20+ years of experience in building best-in-class data protection services at scale.

--- Page 5 ---
Introduction
As software-as-a-service (SaaS) applications enable modern businesses, critical services
are migrating from the trusted confines of the on-premises computing facility to cloud
providers, far away from traditional backup solutions.
This widespread and ongoing shift introduces a shared model in which the SaaS provider
and the SaaS customer—you—each assume ownership of particular responsibilities with
respect to data security (Figure 1).
Figure 1—Division of responsibilities between the SaaS provider (left) and the SaaS customer (right)
While adoption of cloud services has soared—and accelerated by the COVID-19
pandemic’s disruption1 —enterprises are only now beginning to understand the implications
of shared data responsibility. Despite the widespread dependence upon SaaS applications,
most enterprises have not yet implemented third-party backup solutions to protect their
SaaS data, and Gartner projects than only 40% will have done so by 2023.2
Unfortunately, many enterprises will learn the hard way that relying on their SaaS provider
to keep their data safe is a risky proposition: according to Gartner3, by 2022, 70% of
organizations will have suffered a disruption due to unrecoverable data loss in a SaaS
application.
To help enterprises avoid disruption due to lost SaaS data, Keepit has architected a
dedicated, vendor-neutral SaaS data backup solution that is resilient, secure, and easy to
use—and that’s provided with a predictable, all-inclusive pricing structure.
In this guide, we will explain how this dedicated cloud raises the bar for secure backup and
we will present some of the security standards, practices, and features that protect your
data.
But before we get to those topics, we’ll start by explaining why we built our own dedicated
data protection cloud in the first place.
1 For example, Microsoft Teams usage jumps 50 percent to 115 million daily active users [The Verge]
2 See Streamline and Simplify Salesforce Backup and Recovery [Gartner]
3 See Assuming SaaS Applications Don’t Require Backup Is Dangerous [Gartner]
Keepit is a software company specializing in cloud data backup and recovery, deriving 5
from 20+ years of experience in building best-in-class data protection services at scale.

--- Page 6 ---
Why Keepit Built a Dedicated Private Cloud
Key Takeaways:
• Because backing up SaaS data in the public cloud comes with significant security
compromises (and introduces hidden risks), Keepit operates our own data center regions,
running on our own hardware, managed by our own people
• Once a customer chooses a Keepit region for backup, their data never leaves that region
• Building our own cloud allows Keepit to manage supply chain risks and provides
tremendous control over costs, which enables us to offer simple and predictable “all-in”
pricing
The 3-2-1 principle of backup (Figure 2) mandates that you must have one copy of your
data off site. In the days of tape backup, where fire and theft were the only credible threats to
your backup data, the off-site copy effectively ensured that your backup data would survive
any calamity that could befall your primary data and your primary site.
3 2 1
Copies of data Copies Stored Off-site Storage
(1 primary and 2 backups) (At separate locations) (Secure Private Cloud)
Figure 2—The time-tested 3-2-1 principle of data backup
In the cloud age, however, backups have become much more complicated: geographic
dispersal is insufficient to ensure your data is secure, and hidden risks are introduced
by relying on clouds that may be taken offline to protect the providers’ primary business
interests.
True backup requires a separate logical infrastructure
While the requirement for separate backup infrastructure may seem self-evident to many
IT and security professionals, most alternative cloud backup solutions will readily store your
backup directly on the same cloud infrastructure that hosts your primary data—introducing
unnecessary risk and really stretching the meaning of “backup.”
You can choose to store your backup data in the public cloud, and you can even specify
a data center location that is separate from your primary data—but in no way does this
approach provide the assurances that you need, because all your data (now including your
only backups!) is managed under the same administrative infrastructure.
Keepit is a software company specializing in cloud data backup and recovery, deriving 6
from 20+ years of experience in building best-in-class data protection services at scale.

--- Page 7 ---
Consequently, if that infrastructure is
compromised, then both your primary data “True backup
and your backups are at risk, no matter if
they reside on servers in different parts of requires a logical
the country or even on different continents.
infrastructure
In our view, offering “true backup” means
guaranteeing to our customers that their separate from the
backup data doesn’t reside on the same
logical infrastructure as their primary data, primary data”
regardless of which combination of primary
workloads are being protected.
To ensure that your backups are never stored on the same cloud infrastructure that hosts
your primary data (e.g., Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure, etc.), Keepit does not run on
public cloud infrastructure; instead, The Keepit Cloud:
• runs in our own data center regions
• operates on our own hardware
• is managed by our own people
To ensure data sovereignty, once a customer chooses a Keepit region for backup, their
data never leaves that region. Not only does Keepit guarantee that backup data will always
go to that region, but no processes exist that even could transfer backup data out of that
region (aside from customer initiated restores and downloads, of course). Should systems in
a region ever need to be moved out of that jurisdiction, then Keepit will negotiate the moves
with all affected customers prior to execution.
Americas United Kingdom Europe Europe Asia
Washington DC, USA London, UK Copenhagen, DK Frankfurt, DE Sydney, AU
Figure 3: The Keepit Cloud spans the globe with five locations, each of which has two data centers
Keepit is a software company specializing in cloud data backup and recovery, deriving 7
from 20+ years of experience in building best-in-class data protection services at scale.

--- Page 8 ---
Gaining control and managing hidden risks
Aside from the fact that a dedicated private cloud is a fundamental requirement of any
legitimate backup solution, building our own cloud gives Keepit a higher degree of control
over both the supply chain and costs, with considerable benefits for our customers.
Additionally, this strategy showed an unanticipated—but vital—benefit when the COVID-19
pandemic struck. To protect their own primary businesses, many public cloud vendors
shut down customer workloads, forcing thousands of those customers offline. All the while,
Keepit’s dedicated private cloud continued normal operation.
Passing along the benefits: Why Keepit customers don’t worry about deduplication,
compression, and storage
We want to make it simple for you to become (and to happily remain) our
customer. Fortunately, building our own dedicated private cloud provides
advantages for Keepit that translate into benefits for our customers.
For example, the Keepit licensing model is simple: There are no complicated API
transaction fees, network egress or ingress fees, or even storage consumption fees.
That’s right, storage is included—Keepit customers don’t need to worry about
deduplication capabilities or compression ratios!
We can offer simple and predictable pricing because we retain the freedom to
innovate and to evolve the storage technology behind the scenes—something
that would not be possible if we were using a public cloud. Since customers and
partners are not sensitive to the cost structures around the underlying storage, we
can continue to improve our systems regardless of how this will affect byte-for-byte
consumption on whatever storage media the future brings.
There will continue to be some demand for BYOS (Bring Your Own Storage)
business models in which the customer effectively pays twice: once for the backup
service and once more for the public cloud storage onto which the backup data
is subsequently copied. However, this approach is fundamentally at odds with our
philosophy that true backups cannot be stored on the same cloud as the primary
data; therefore, BYOS is not a model we have chosen to pursue.
Keepit is a software company specializing in cloud data backup and recovery, deriving 8
from 20+ years of experience in building best-in-class data protection services at scale.

--- Page 9 ---
Raising the Bar for Secure SaaS Backups
Key Takeaways:
• Keepit’s backup service is vendor neutral and already supports major SaaS application
providers
• Resilience and data immutability are achieved through immediate encryption of backup
data, 30-day delete retention, data region sovereignty and dual data center redundancy,
and a unique, tamper-proof infrastructure
• A blockchain-like Merkle tree architecture and innovative “incremental forever” data
transfer ensure secure, reliable and change-based long-term data storage
• Restoring from a backup is quick and easy: simply browse and search through time and
space, then click to restore once you find what you lost with our multiple restore options
When designing and building The Keepit Cloud, we aspired to provide a number of
important fundamental features and characteristics, including:
• Vendor-neutrality
• Resilience and data immutability
• Secure, reliable and change-based long-term data storage
• Easy and fast data recovery unparalleled in the industry
The following subsections describe these in detail.
Vendor-agnostic storage
Today’s enterprises rely on a growing list of SaaS applications and providers, headlined
by Microsoft Office 365 and Dynamics 365, Google Workspace (formerly G Suite), and
Salesforce. It is imperative that any practical SaaS data backup solution support these
services, otherwise clients will be burdened with the extra overhead, complexity, and
potential risk that comes with maintaining multiple backup systems.
Moreover, the SaaS vendor ecosystem is always expanding. Accordingly, The Keepit Cloud
is completely vendor agnostic, meaning there is no technical reason why support for a
particular SaaS application provider cannot be introduced in addition to the major vendors
already integrated into the platform (Figure 4).
Figure 4—The Keepit Cloud is completely vendor agnostic
Keepit is a software company specializing in cloud data backup and recovery, deriving 9
from 20+ years of experience in building best-in-class data protection services at scale.

--- Page 10 ---
The Keepit Physical Media Restore (PMR) option
With Keepit, you reap the benefits of off-site storage while being comforted by the
knowledge that if your primary cloud is compromised, your backup is safe and
secure elsewhere.
Keepit even offers a Physical Media Restore (PMR) option that allows you to
install an on-premises appliance locally to track the backup set in the cloud.
In the ultimate disaster scenario where both the primary workload vendor (e.g.,
Microsoft, Salesforce, Google) and Keepit cease to exist, you will still have a copy
of your data.4
4 If you would like to learn more about our PMR options, please contact your Keepit sales representative.
Keepit is a software company specializing in cloud data backup and recovery, deriving 10
from 20+ years of experience in building best-in-class data protection services at scale.

--- Page 11 ---
Resilience and data immutability
Assuming physical security is adequate, no threat actor can erase the data stored on an
offline tape. In the cloud, however, everything is always online and expectations for ease of
use dictate a high degree of accessibility.
To ensure security while maintaining convenience, Keepit combines several protective
measures (Table 1).
Protective Measure Benefits
Immediate Encryption Upon ingestion by the Keepit platform, backup data is immediately
encrypted before it is written to storage media. This process employs
industry best practice algorithms believed to offer unbreakable secu-
rity for at least the next 30 years.
30-day Delete There is no simple way to immediately delete your data in Keepit: you,
Retention or the attacker who has successfully taken over your identity, will have
to wait for 30 days for datasets to be deleted or for accounts to be
closed.
This deliberate delay is the first line of defense against user error,
insider threats, and ransomware attacks that target backups.5
Data Region Sover- To comply with data sovereignty requirements and desires for
eignty and Dual Data geographical dispersal of information assets, Keepit offers regions
Center Redundancy around the world. Once your data enters a given Keepit region, your
data stays in that region—forever.
To provide protection from the most common disasters such as fire,
power or cooling system outages—or other events that can render
a building or complex of buildings unusable—all data is copied into
two separate data center facilities within the chosen region.
Unique, Tamper-Proof The Keepit infrastructure runs on software that was designed and
Infrastructure built from the ground up by our team. This proprietary storage infra-
structure allows us to provide fast and reliable backup at a reason-
able cost, and supports the data immutability that protects backup
datasets—like the backup tapes of yesteryear, our disk-based stor-
age systems do not offer a mechanism for modifying backup data.
This core characteristic means that even in a nightmare scenar-
io—e.g., administrative accounts are compromised, primary data
is corrupted or encrypted, attackers gain access to your backups—
there is no way for the system to comply with an attacker’s efforts to
tamper with your backup.
Table 1—These protective measures ensure security without limiting convenience
5 Many ransomware families are adept at targeting backups, prompting the UK’s National Cyber Security Centre
(NCSC) to update their malware guidance to reiterate the risk; see Updating our malware & ransomware guidance
[NCSC]
Keepit is a software company specializing in cloud data backup and recovery, deriving 11
from 20+ years of experience in building best-in-class data protection services at scale.

--- Page 12 ---
Secure, reliable and change-based long-term data storage
We designed the Keepit platform for the specific purpose of providing secure and reliable
long-term storage for SaaS backup data. In pursuit of this objective, we created a uniquely
powerful information architecture (Table 2) that employs a blockchain-like Merkle tree
structure and an innovative “incremental forever” approach to deliver performance and cost
benefits that would simply not be possible on general-purpose storage services.
Architectural Element Benefits
Blockchain-like Merkle The Keepit information architecture is inspired by the Merkle tree
Tree Architecture structure that gained renown from blockchain systems such as Bit-
coin and the ‘git’ version control system.
In addition to providing benefits including strong consistency checks,
this design also allows us to represent and access backup sets
over time—completely removing the antiquated model of ‘full’ and
‘incremental’ backups, along with all the overhead associated with
that legacy approach.
“Incremental Forever” In the Keepit data model, when a backup executes, we effectively
Data Transfer only transfer the differences in your dataset; however, when you view
your data in the Keepit platform, all access is instant across time
and space, and every single backup—no matter how old—appears
as if it was a standalone full copy of your dataset at the time it was
taken.
We have even gone a step further: by designing, completely from
scratch, an object storage architecture for this information mod-
el, we are able to store backup data very efficiently on simple
high-density hard drive-based storage systems, which simplifies our
supply chain and lowers both the risk and the price point for our
customers.
Table 2—By rethinking information architecture, the Keepit platform provides secure and reliable long-term backup
with unmatched performance
Keepit is a software company specializing in cloud data backup and recovery, deriving 12
from 20+ years of experience in building best-in-class data protection services at scale.

--- Page 13 ---
Unparalleled easy and fast data recovery
What good is reliable backup if you can’t find what you’re looking for, or if it takes days or
weeks to recover your data?
With Keepit, all data is instantly accessible. To restore from a backup, simply search for or
browse to the data you need and click “Restore.” All your data with all your history is readily
available for you in a modern web-based user interface that offers not only live browsing but
also provides previews, downloads, and restores of your data elements.
And that’s it—there are no extra steps. You browse and search through time and space, and
you click the button once you find what you’ve lost. The efficiency of the restore process is
unparalleled in the market.
Figure 5 — Easily find the right data with our Smart Search and restore across time with a few clicks
Keepit is a software company specializing in cloud data backup and recovery, deriving 13
from 20+ years of experience in building best-in-class data protection services at scale.

--- Page 14 ---
Security Standards, Practices, and Features
Key Takeaways:
• All data center facilities employed by Keepit conform to a high physical security baseline
and typically hold ISO 27001 certification plus complementary certifications (e.g., SOC-2,
ISAE 3402, PCI/DSS, HIPAA)
• Technical and organizational measures are in place to ensure operational security,
including a high degree of automation, comprehensive staff training, third-party security
audits, proactive penetration testing, and detailed operational monitoring of the health of
physical infrastructure and the software stack
• Mature software development lifecycle processes ensure that security is incorporated from
the inception of a new project and continued throughout the entire life of the system
• To enhance protection of customer data, the Keepit platform incorporates TLS transport
security and secure, logged access controls; the recommended best practice for
deployment uses the customer’s existing authentication infrastructure by means of SAML
integration
Providing secure backup demands more than just a secure platform design. Security extends
to the physical and operational aspects of the platform and must be ingrained within the
software development lifecycle.
Physical security
As noted in Table 1, once backup data reaches the Keepit platform, it is immediately
copied into systems in two separate data centers within the designated region. This practice
provides resilience in case a facility is permanently lost (e.g., to fire or a natural disaster) and
also ensures continuous availability of data in case of a more benign facility problem (e.g.,
temporary failure of power or cooling systems).
In every region, the Keepit platform operates in active-active mode between the two data
centers. This model:
• Allows the platform to continue virtually uninterrupted in the unlikely scenario that a full
building is incapacitated
• Provides system-level redundancy, allowing the platform to continue servicing customers
in case any single system is lost or needs to be taken offline for service, upgrades,
maintenance, or repairs
This system-level redundancy is complemented by significant component-level redundancy
on the individual servers that host the Keepit platform. Components that most commonly fail
on modern servers (e.g., cooling fans, power supplies and spinning disks) can typically be hot
swapped without even powering down the system holding the failed component.
Keepit is a software company specializing in cloud data backup and recovery, deriving 14
from 20+ years of experience in building best-in-class data protection services at scale.

--- Page 15 ---
Figure 6 - Each region has dual data centers which typically holds the above certifications.
While there are some local differences between the regions, 6 any data center facility
employed by Keepit will conform to a physical security baseline that:
• Ensure high availability
• Restricts access to the physical systems that constitute the Keepit platform
Physical security at a facility can feature a combination of multi-factor authentication
including biometric identification for facility access, controlled access with man traps,
CCTV monitoring of the facility and facility perimeter, plus onsite security staff. Typically,
the processing facilities will hold an ISO 27001 certification and several complementary
certifications such as SOC-2, ISAE 3402, PCI/DSS, HIPAA etc.
When providing large-scale storage, failure of storage media is a regular and undramatic
event. Failed storage media is never sent back to the media vendor for analysis; instead, it
is kept onsite for physical disintegration (mechanical shredding) before being disposed of,
upholding Keepit’s commitment that customer data never leaves its designated region.
Additionally, and as noted previously, customer backup data is encrypted before it is written
to storage media. Therefore, even in the most unlikely event that a storage device is stolen
from a processing facility, any data on the media remains inaccessible.
6 Please consult your Keepit sales representative for details
Keepit is a software company specializing in cloud data backup and recovery, deriving 15
from 20+ years of experience in building best-in-class data protection services at scale.

--- Page 16 ---
Operational security
The Keepit service has long held ISAE 3402-II certification. 7 We expect to complete ISO
27001 certification in 2021, and the organization has been aligning toward this standard
for many years. ISO 27001 compliance is a significant undertaking requiring structured risk
assessment, business continuity planning, and detailed documentation trails on processes
involving information security. We believe that the ISO 27001 certification helps both our
organization and our customers by providing reasonable assurances that information
security is being taken very seriously at Keepit.
In addition to the conditions required by ISAE 3402-II certification, Keepit has implemented a
number of operational security measures (Table 3).
Operational Security Explanation
Measure
Automation The Keepit service is fully automated, operating based on the instruc-
tions (i.e., the configuration) provided by the customer. Therefore, no
human operators outside of the customer’s own organization are in-
volved in accessing, reviewing, or otherwise processing actual customer
data.
Restricted Access The Keepit platform itself is regularly updated as part of the ongoing
maintenance and evolution of our service. However, there are no recur-
ring or routine tasks that require human operators to access customer
data. Furthermore, there are technical measures in place to ensure
that no such access is required and that it is not easily or accidentally
invoked. Additionally, there are organizational measures in place to
educate and train staff on information security practices and policies.
Regional Support If a customer needs assistance—and in the rare event that this assis-
tance involves access to actual customer backup data—the Keepit
support organization will work with the customer to ensure that such
requests are served by support staff in an appropriate region, con-
sidering data sovereignty requirements, support availability, and time
constraints.
Third-Party Security Not only do we employ external auditors for security assessments, we
Assessments also subject our platform to regular penetration testing conducted
by third-party security and risk management specialists. This process
replicates the tactics threat actors employ to gain Initial Access,8 and
extends beyond simple automated security scanners (which we also
employ, of course).
Table 3—Keepit employs a number of operational security measures
7 Keepit’s Service Organizational Controls certification is audited annually by Deloitte
8 See Initial Access within the MITRE ATT&CK Framework [MITRE]
Keepit is a software company specializing in cloud data backup and recovery, deriving 16
from 20+ years of experience in building best-in-class data protection services at scale.

--- Page 17 ---
Operational insights
To ensure reliable around-the-clock operation, we closely monitor our production systems’
physical operational health and software stack health (Table 4).
Operational Concern Explanation
Physical Operational We measure tens of thousands of datapoints every minute, aggre-
Health gating them and making them instantly available to our operational
staff, thereby ensuring efficient investigation and mitigation to meet
our high uptime guarantees.
System and data center performance is continuously compared to
baseline thresholds, while our health monitoring system monitors the
physical equipment (e.g., environmental, network, hardware, oper-
ating systems and services) with 30-second granularity, alerting on
a range of unwanted situations (e.g., high temperatures in our data
centers, failing disks in storage systems, congested network connec-
tions that threaten to impede ingress and egress, etc.).
Software Stack Health Our Real-Time High-Frequency Event Monitoring (RTHFEM) system
provides platform-specific deep stack insights on software compo-
nents and their operational health.
Our operations team has different dashboards and areas of interest
they follow and monitor, and live metrics can even be shared across
organizational groups to provide developers with real-world insights
into how their code performs in production.
The RTHFEM system provides insights into data ingress rates from
different SaaS vendors and quickly identifies problems, should they
arise within the software stack. Our backend engineers also use this
system to troubleshoot specific customer-related situations based
on anonymized views of the interoperability of each customer’s con-
nectors, data estate, and index.
Additionally, detailed insights into software processes can assist with
determining if an SLA is at risk or if an anomaly might be an indica-
tor of malicious activity.
Table 4—Operational insights provide our team with timely feedback, visibility, and alerts
Looking for the current status and change history?
Visit status.keepit.com to view and subscribe to updates.
Keepit is a software company specializing in cloud data backup and recovery, deriving 17
from 20+ years of experience in building best-in-class data protection services at scale.

--- Page 18 ---
Software development life cycle
Keepit is dedicated to providing best-in-class solutions for cloud-to-cloud backup and data
management. For us to make good on our promises, we are actively developing our platform
in the pursuit of continuous improvement. Our software development lifecycle processes
(Figure 7) ensure that security is incorporated from the inception of a new project and
continued throughout the entire life of the system; these mature processes have been refined
over the lifespan of the company, but we continue to invest in their ongoing evolution.
Figure 7—Keepit executes a mature and agile security-oriented software delivery methodology
Strong processes are a necessity for the secure development of new functionality on the
Keepit platform. While information sharing is vital in any growing organization, segregation
of duties is also an essential part of the actual execution of development, qualification,
and—ultimately—deployment of software. We employ a number of technical and
organizational measures to ensure that only the software approved by our Quality Assurance
team goes to production. By enforcing significant workflow around “simple things” like
software deployment, we ensure that we have a high degree of confidence in any and all
software that is deployed to production and, in case a problem is discovered, that we are
able to roll back a deployment or deploy hot fixes efficiently (once qualified).
Keepit is a software company specializing in cloud data backup and recovery, deriving 18
from 20+ years of experience in building best-in-class data protection services at scale.

--- Page 19 ---
Security Features
In addition to the measures already presented (e.g., regional lock-in, dual data center
redundancy), the Keepit platform also incorporates a number of additional security features
to enhance protection of customer data. Two of the most important to govern are transport
security and access control (Table 5).
Security Feature Explanation
TLS Transport All primary workloads supported by Keepit employ modern Transport
Security Layer Security (TLS) encryption on the endpoints used by Keepit and
customers to access data. These communication protocols are de-
signed to provide safe transport of data over insecure networks such as
open Wi-Fi or broadband internet connections.
Additionally, to ensure a short path and the fastest possible data
exchange with the primary customer data clouds for backup and res-
toration, Keepit connects directly to major internet exchanges.
Secure and Logged Keepit’s recommended best practice for deployment uses the cus-
Access Controls tomer’s existing authentication infrastructure (such as AD/ADFS, Okta,
etc.) by means of SAML integration. This approach allows customers to
leverage the identity security measures they already have in place (e.g.,
multi-factor authentication).9
Inside Keepit, an elaborate access control list (ACL) and role-based
access control (RBAC) system allow fine-grained control over which
identities can perform which operations on the customer tenant. For
example, pre-defined policies permit an administrative role to manage
the backup and a support role that can only restore data in place (as
part of an internal IT support role) and cannot download or otherwise
exfiltrate data from the platform.
Additionally, separate groups of administrators can manage separate
backup configurations; for example, one group can manage the Sales-
force or Dynamics 365 backup while another manages the Microsoft
Office 365 or Google Workspace backup.
Finally, an audit trail is maintained for the duration of the customer
engagement. The audit log can be viewed directly in the web applica-
tion by authorized administrators and it can be accessed via the API for
integration into third-party log analysis solutions.
Table 5—Security features provide additional protection for data in transit and at rest
9 For customers who lack such identity and access management capabilities, Keepit also offers a password-based
authentication option with additional MFA features coming in 2021
Keepit is a software company specializing in cloud data backup and recovery, deriving 19
from 20+ years of experience in building best-in-class data protection services at scale.

--- Page 20 ---
Conclusions
With increasing numbers of business-critical SaaS applications migrating to the cloud, and
in a world in which new threats arise daily, continuity planning demands a secure SaaS data
backup solution—and the SaaS vendors are clear that backups are your responsibility, not
theirs.
The question then becomes: where to back up this critical data?
“SaaS vendors are clear that backups are
your responsibility, not theirs.”
Keepit believes that real backup requires a separate logical infrastructure from the cloud
in which the primary data is hosted. The most practical solution, then, is a dedicated cloud
platform.
But simply having a dedicated platform is not enough: the platform must be secure. However,
security is not something that can be bolted on as an afterthought—it needs to be designed
into the very essence of a system. This secure-by-design philosophy guided the creation of
The Keepit Cloud, which was architected from the ground up by information security and
hosting experts to provide secure backup of SaaS data:
• Resilience and data immutability are achieved through immediate encryption of backup
data, 30-day delete retention, data region sovereignty and dual data center redundancy,
and a unique, tamper-proof infrastructure
• A blockchain-like Merkle tree architecture and innovative “incremental forever” data
transfer ensure secure, reliable, and change-based long-term data storage
• All data center facilities employed by Keepit conform to a high physical security baseline
and typically hold ISO 27001 certification plus complementary certifications (e.g., SOC-2,
ISAE 3402, PCI/DSS, HIPAA)
• Technical and organizational measures are in place to ensure operational security,
including a high degree of automation, comprehensive staff training, third-party security
audits, proactive penetration testing, and detailed operational monitoring of the health of
physical infrastructure and the software stack
• Mature software development lifecycle processes ensure that security is incorporated from
the inception of a new project and continued throughout the entire life of the system
• To enhance protection of customer data, the Keepit platform incorporates TLS transport
security and secure, logged access controls
These characteristics and others combine to form a SaaS data backup solution that is
fundamentally different from and—we sincerely believe—superior to other products in
the market, and that provides you with the benefits of offsite storage and the comforting
knowledge that if your primary cloud is compromised, your backup is safe and secure
elsewhere.
If you would like to know more about our solution, please reach out to us at
sales@keepit.com.
Keepit is a software company specializing in cloud data backup and recovery, deriving 20
from 20+ years of experience in building best-in-class data protection services at scale.

--- Page 21 ---
About Keepit
Keepit is a software company specializing
in cloud data backup and recovery,
deriving from 20+ years of experience in
building best-in-class data protection
services at scale.
Visit: Keepit.com
