Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/case-stories/Keepit-Saxo-Bank-customer-case-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Customer case
How Keepit helps
Saxo Bank navigate
complex compliance

--- Page 2 ---
Customer case:
Saxo Bank
In 2019, Saxo Bank implemented Keepit as the backup and recovery service for all employees
on Microsoft 365. Saxo Bank has recently implemented Microsoft Teams and plans to introduce
more features going forward in collaboration with Keepit as the trusted provider, protecting their
cloud SaaS data.
Navigating complex compliance Extensive archiving capability
A multinational financial services provider, Saxo It was key for Saxo Bank to have backup func-
Bank is subject to stringent compliance and tionality outside of the Microsoft ecosystem and
regulatory control across its operations world- meet compliance requirements as they do for Cis-
wide. This in turn requires an efficient search func- co phones and Skype for Business today. Keep-
tion that enables Saxo Bank to find and share it’s solution not only safeguards emails and files
specific data with its legal team within minutes. for Saxo Bank’s 1,600+ global employees world-
Keepit’s unique find and restore features wide, it also provides the ability to rapidly gain
facilitate this. access to any piece of backed-up information.
“An impressive element of Keepit’s solution
is that it often takes only minutes to find and
share the specific item with our Legal team,
whilst it often took much longer with our on-
prem solution.”
- Thomas Ulrich
Head of Digital Workplace & Support Services
Saxo Bank

--- Page 3 ---
Customer case:
Saxo Bank
Keepit’s customer-focused services met all of
Saxo Bank’s needs and process requirements
from the very start. As Saxo Bank continues to
implement more Microsoft 365 features, Keepit
will continue to safeguard their cloud SaaS data.
“It is very important to back up our
Microsoft applications in a sophisticated
and fulsome manner. We considered
About Saxo Bank
Microsoft’s backup and archiving
Saxo Bank is a regulated bank offering financial
capabilities to be insufficient for our
services worldwide. The Copenhagen-based financial
purposes and were impressed by organization has over 860,000 clients and 120 partner
banks that use Saxo Bank’s platforms to place over
the scope of Keepit’s backup and
125,000 trades a day at industry-leading prices. As a
archiving capabilities, as well as the
fintech bank, Saxo Bank launched one of the industry’s
granularity of their restore function.” first online trading platforms, making global markets
available to everyone.
- Thomas Ulrich
The company is currently investing heavily in new
Head of Digital Workplace & Support Services
technology to empower clients with institutional-
Saxo Bank
grade execution and powerful features.
Your data. Here today. Here tomorrow.
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data
in a vendor-independent cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and
future-proof data protection. For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on LinkedIn.
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved. Microsoft and Microsoft Entra ID are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.
