Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/case-stories/Keepit-SPIEGEL-Verlag-customercase-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Centralized control and
protection for SaaS
applications: SPIEGEL-
Verlag chooses Keepit
Customer success story

--- Page 2 ---
Centralized control and
protection for SaaS
applications: SPIEGEL-
Verlag chooses Keepit
For SPIEGEL-Verlag, digital growth has expanded how content is created, shared, and
protected across the organization. While the company continues to publish its well-known
print magazines – such as DER SPIEGEL that is one of the largest news publications in Europe –
its growing portfolio of online platforms and digital services has increased the importance of
ensuring business-critical data remains secure and recoverable. Protecting SaaS application
data is essential to supporting daily operations and maintaining continuity across editorial
and business teams.
Miroslav Najda, head of IT Operations and DevOps, is responsible for the company’s IT
architecture and security, ensuring systems remain resilient and available to support
SPIEGEL’s evolving digital environment.
LOCATION INDUSTRY EMPLOYEES
Germany Publishing 1,400+
Multi-application SaaS coverage from one Trusted technology partner Serviceware introduced
platform
Keepit as a platform capable of protecting a
As the SaaS environment at SPIEGEL-Verlag broad range of SaaS applications. Serviceware
expanded, the IT team began evaluating how supported SPIEGEL-Verlag throughout the process
to back up Atlassian products, Microsoft Power by setting up and conducting the proof of concept,
Platform, and other business-critical SaaS followed by the implementation of the solution
applications. Existing tools did not provide and its transition into live operations. What began
consistent coverage across these platforms, as a search to address specific gaps evolved into a
prompting the team to reassess how they decision to centralize protection for Microsoft 365,
approached SaaS data protection. Atlassian products, Salesforce, Microsoft Power
Platform, and Entra ID within one solution.
Customer success story 2

--- Page 3 ---
“Coverage across SaaS applications was the most important factor for us. With
Keepit, we can use one platform to protect multiple services.”
Miroslav Najda
Head of IT Operations and DevOps
SPIEGEL-Verlag
Rather than managing multiple tools for different planning as SPIEGEL continues to expand its
platforms, the IT team wanted centralized control SaaS environment.
and consistent protection across their SaaS
Fast, reliable restores keep teams
environment.
productive
Keepit provides true third-party backup and SPIEGEL-Verlag’s IT organization delivers
recovery designed for cloud applications. backup and recovery as an internal service
Data and metadata remain immutable, across departments, ensuring teams can
always accessible, and quickly recoverable quickly recover lost files or data when needed.
through granular restore functionality, helping Restore capabilities are critical to maintaining
organizations reduce risk and strengthen productivity and avoiding disruption.
business continuity.
Granular recovery options allow the IT team to
Predictable costs for long-term stability efficiently restore data and support internal users
Cost transparency was another important factor. without complex or time-consuming processes.
The team had experienced price increases
German data storage for greater control
with their previous solution, making budgeting
The ability to store data in Germany was also an
more difficult and prompting them to evaluate
important consideration. Combined with vendor-
alternatives.
independent architecture, this provides SPIEGEL-
Verlag with confidence that business-critical
“Cost predictability was one of the
SaaS data remains protected in accordance with
pain points with our previous solution.
organizational requirements.
We experienced price increases,
By consolidating multi-application SaaS
which led us to look for another
protection within a single platform, SPIEGEL-
option.”
Verlag has simplified data protection while
Miroslav Najda
strengthening resilience. With predictable costs,
Head of IT Operations and DevOps,
broad coverage, and reliable restore capabilities,
SPIEGEL-Verlag
Keepit supports continuity across the company’s
evolving digital landscape.
Keepit’s transparent pricing model provides
clarity and stability, supporting long-term
Customer success story 3

--- Page 4 ---
Trust in continued collaboration
As SaaS adoption accelerates, companies are
continuously onboarding new tools to increase
efficiency and streamline processes. For SPIEGEL,
knowing that the Keepit platform will continue to
add to its portfolio in the future assured them of
continued partnership for years to come.
“Knowing that Keepit is aiming to cover more
applications in the future makes it easier for us – we
know we are starting a long-term collaboration and
don’t need to worry as we grow our SaaS suite,”
says Miroslav Najda.
“Backup is essential, but the real value
comes from being able to restore data
quickly and reliably. Otherwise, the
backup itself becomes far less useful.”
Miroslav Najda
Head of IT Operations and DevOps
SPIEGEL-Verlag
About SPIEGEL Group
The SPIEGEL Group based in Hamburg is one of the most respected German media houses. Print magazines, digital
offerings and TV productions enjoy an outstanding position in the German media landscape. The exceptional jour-
nalistic quality and independent reporting form the core of all journalistic products.
In addition to SPIEGEL, Germany’s most important and Europe’s largest news magazine, the business magazines
manager magazin and Harvard Business manager also belong to the SPIEGEL Group, as does the SPIEGEL TV brand,
which produces video content for all distribution channels. 11FREUNDE, the magazine for football culture, and Ef-
filee, the culinary culture magazine, round off the diverse range.
In 2024, the SPIEGEL Group generated sales of 255 million euros with around 1400 employees. In Germany, the
group has nine editorial offices. Internationally, it is represented at around 20 locations.
About Serviceware
Serviceware empowers organizations worldwide to reinvent their service processes — intelligent, digital, and
highly automated. The AI-native Serviceware Platform, combined with strategic consulting and a strong network
of partners in IT security, data management, and endpoint management, provides a powerful foundation for effi-
cient service delivery and future-proof IT transformation.
Your data. Here today. Here tomorrow.
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data in a vendor-independent
cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and future-proof data protection.
For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on LinkedIn.
© 06/01/26 Keepit. All rights reserved. Microsoft and Microsoft Entra ID are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.
