Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/case-stories/Keepit-ANCA-Case-Study-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Customer case
ANCA improves data
protection efficiency and
compliance with Keepit

--- Page 2 ---
Customer case:
ANCA
When ANCA, an Australian manufacturer known for its precision-engineered CNC grinding
machines, expanded its use of Microsoft 365, including SharePoint Online for engineering
documentation and Entra ID for secure identity management, the IT team knew it needed a better
way to protect critical data. To keep information always accessible and stay compliant with
Australia’s Essential Eight Maturity Model, ANCA turned to Keepit for a solution that matched its
values of simplicity, resilience, and innovation.
Backup failures prompt a rethink Keepit delivers simplicity, security, and
Before implementing Keepit, ANCA’s IT team compliance
struggled with its previous backup provider. When it came time to evaluate new options,
Persistent reliability issues with the previous the team had clear priorities: reliability,
solution put critical data at risk and undermined compliance, and ease of use. Working with its
trust in recovery. “The IT team was buried in alerts, trusted partner, FullBackup, ANCA discovered
and we couldn’t guarantee the recovery of critical Keepit as the ideal choice for protecting its
data,” said Andrew Zhou, Group IT Manager at SaaS data. FullBackup recommended Keepit
ANCA. because it provides immutable backups and
full data sovereignty through its Australian data
With compliance at risk, particularly meeting the
center, both key to meeting ANCA’s compliance
Essential Eight maturity level 2 requirements,
requirements.
the team needed a trusted, transparent solution
that could deliver consistent backups and fast,
dependable recovery.
“Keepit’s immutability and ease of use give
me total confidence that our data is safe
and always recoverable.”
- Andrew Zhou,
Group IT Manager at ANCA

--- Page 3 ---
Customer case:
ANCA
Deployment was fast and hassle-free. Even
ANCA’s large SharePoint environment was fully
protected within days. The platform’s clean,
intuitive interface meant the team did not need
extra training to get started. Within moments, they
had full visibility and control across Microsoft 365
and Entra ID.
Reliable protection, improved operations
With Keepit, ANCA’s IT team no longer has
About ANCA
to stress about backups. Immutable storage
Founded in 1974 and headquartered in Melbourne,
keeps data safe from corruption or attack, and
ANCA is a world-leading manufacturer of CNC
day-to-day management is simple. The team
grinding machines, automation solutions, and motion
also benefits from smarter recovery tools that controls. With customers in more than 45 countries
have improved both efficiency and overall user and offices across North America, Europe, and Asia,
ANCA supports industries from automotive and
experience across the organization.
aerospace to medical and general manufacturing.
End users can now browse snapshots and recover About FullBackup
what they need on their own, saving IT hours that FullBackup is an Australian data protection
used to be spent chasing vague restore requests. specialist focused on secure, sovereign, and
compliant backup solutions. As a trusted Keepit
Managers also gain instant read-only access
partner, FullBackup supports all 12 Keepit-protected
during employee offboarding, allowing Microsoft
workloads - including Microsoft 365, Entra ID,
365 licenses to be retired right away. The result is Google Workspace, Okta, Salesforce, DocuSign and
stronger security, lower costs, and more efficient more, delivering proven expertise across SaaS
environments. With a strong local presence and deep
operations overall.
technical capability, FullBackup helps organizations
Full compliance, renewed confidence deploy resilient, compliant backup and recovery
platforms that safeguard data integrity and business
Since moving to Keepit, ANCA has not had a
continuity.
single backup failure and now meets Australia’s
Essential Eight compliance with confidence. Self-
service recovery has increased efficiency across
“No more sleepless nights worrying
teams by reducing IT workload and providing
about recovery. Keepit gives us reliability,
faster access to data when it’s needed most.
compliance, and peace of mind — all in one
The solution’s reliability and simplicity have
platform.”
strengthened resilience against data loss while
giving ANCA complete assurance in its backup - Andrew Zhou,
strategy. Group IT Manager at ANCA
Your data. Here today. Here tomorrow.
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data
in a vendor-independent cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and
future-proof data protection. For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on Linkedin.
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved. Microsoft and Microsoft Entra ID are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.
