Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/product-sheets/Keepit-for-Monday-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Keepit Backup and
Recovery for monday.com
Recover lost project and collaboration data instantly — no disruption
Monday.com holds critical project and operational data that, if lost, impacts productivity and performance.
Yet, native recovery options are limited to short retention windows. Don’t be mistaken: Protecting your data is
your responsibility. Accidental deletions, errors, or misuse can permanently erase history, disrupt projects, and
create compliance risk.
Awarded for its broad SaaS coverage, impenetrable architecture, and ease-of-use, Keepit ensures that your
monday.com data is backed up and swiftly recoverable at all times, minimizing the impact of data loss and the
burden of recovery on your teams.
Time-saving usability Assured data integrity Centralized management
Easy to implement and intuitive, With Keepit, you’re certain that your A unified platform for all backups
Keepit requires minimal expertise to backups are immutable — they can’t across critical SaaS applications
use — while delivering confidence be modified or deleted. Stored in our —provides transparency, visibility,
in your ability to swiftly recover your vendor-independent cloud, your data and easy reporting for managers
data whenever you need it. remains accessible at all times. and leadership.
The risk Proven benefit
In 2024, over 70% of data loss incidents were Keepit customers were able to reduce the time
caused by user mistakes. needed to restore data for priority users by 90% after
a data loss incident.
Source: Proofpoint - The 2024 Data Loss Landscape
Source: Forrester Total Economic Impact Study 2024
”Monday.com is a key SaaS
platform in our organization and
no backups is a critical gap in our
Information Security posture.”
April Battenfelder – Managing Director at BEAST
Design Studios GmbH, Germany

--- Page 2 ---
Be confident you can always get your data back easily
KEY CAPABILITIES
Automated backups Outstanding ease-of-use Data compare
Customize and automate backup jobs Built to protect SaaS applications, Compare backup snapshots to identify
so your data remains preserved and Keepit is quick to implement and records added, modified, or deleted
recoverable whenever you need it. intuitive to use. over time, enabling precise recovery.
Instant search and preview Point-in-time recovery Highest security
Easily find what you need with Keepit’s Restore data to an exact state from any Stored in our vendor-independent
comprehensive search. Use filters to historical point to reverse accidental cloud and immutable by design, Keepit
identify data and the preview function changes or corruption. offers industry-leading security,
to review it before restoring. keeping your backups safe.
WHAT WE COVER
Account metadata Products / Workspaces Teams
• Members • Members
Boards • Folders • Workspaces
• Definition • Boards • Boards
• Groups • Photo
• Items (text in data cells) Users
• Items/files (binary data in cells) • Definition We continuously extend our
• Items/files (links in cells) • Teams capabilities. Find the complete,
• Items/subitems • Photo current coverage here.
• Members
Find out how simple and
easy Keepit is to use
Get a demo
Your data. Here today. Here tomorrow.
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data
in a vendor-independent cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and
future-proof data protection. For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on Linkedin.
© 2026 Keepit. All rights reserved. Microsoft and Microsoft Entra ID are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.
