Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/product-sheets/Keepit-for-Microsoft-Power-Platform-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Backup and recovery for
Microsoft Power Platform
Secure what your teams built with Power Platform and recover it when it matters.
Your teams have invested significant time building low-code apps, automations, and reports
in Microsoft Power Platform. Under the shared responsibility model, protecting that data and
those workflows ultimately falls on you while Microsoft’s native Power Platform backups are
limited, offering only short-term retention and full environment restores instead of granular
recovery.
With Keepit, you can safeguard your Power Platform environment with automated, secure
backups and fast, point-in-time recovery. So even if accidental deletions or malicious activity
occur, your business-critical workflows stay intact — and your teams stay productive.
Time-saving usability Confidence in recovery Business continuity
Keepit makes it easy for anyone, Recover exactly what’s missing, With Keepit, critical workflows,
from citizen developers to admins, to without restoring the entire apps, and reports stay protected
recover Power Platform data quickly environment. Also, with always- and recoverable, keeping your
— no technical skills needed. hot storage, recovery is immediate teams productive and your
when it matters most. business moving forward even after
disruptions.
THE RISK PROVEN BENEFIT
Users often delete records or transactions [...] Keepit customers realized a 163% return on
via system processes, single selection, multiple investment over a three-year period.
selections, and bulk deletion.
Source: Forrester Total Economic Impact Study 2024
Source: Microsoft Learn
“I don't think that you will find a better solution
than Keepit when it comes to securing your
SaaS data across multiple applications and
ensuring robust, independent data security.”
Leonard Haraslin - Information and Cyber Security Specialist,
Penta Hospitals

--- Page 2 ---
Keep your work safe and recover the intelligent way.
KEY CAPABILITIES
Automated backups Point-in-time recovery Outstanding ease-of-use
Set up the connection with Power Restore data to an exact state from any Keepit protects your SaaS
Platform products and let Keepit run historical point to reverse accidental applications’ data, including many
automated backups. deletions or app corruption. other Microsoft applications, while
remaining quick to implement and
Instant search and preview Highest security intuitive to use.
Power Platform environments often Keepit’s vendor-independent cloud
have multiple apps and complex data. and immutable-by-design architecture Compliance and reporting
It’s easy to find and recover what ensure your backups stay protected. Easily document and prove compliance
you’ve lost with Keepit’s search and with backup requirements and data
preview function. protection efforts.
WHAT WE COVER
Power Apps Power Automate Power Pages Power BI
• Canvas apps • Desktop flows • Power Pages • Dataflows
• Model-driven apps • Cloud flows • Reports
Find the complete
coverage here.
Find out how simple and
easy Keepit is to use
Get a demo
Your data. Here today. Here tomorrow.
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data
in a vendor-independent cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and
future-proof data protection. For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on LinkedIn.
© 2026 Keepit. All rights reserved. Microsoft and Microsoft Power Platform are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.
