Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/case-stories/Keepit-Penta-Use-Case-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Customer case:
Penta Hospitals
Penta Hospitals recognizes
Keepit’s unparalleled
business continuity and data
compliance benefits

--- Page 2 ---
Customer case:
Penta Hospitals
As a healthcare organization, consistent access to data is essential. Penta Hospitals shines light
on Keepit’s ability to prevent data loss and quickly recover data in the event of a ransomware
attack. The solution also ensures that the key to their Microsoft data, Entra ID, is consistently
backed up. Finally, Keepit makes data compliance easy to achieve with its flexible retention
policies and detailed audit trails.
The search for streamlined data loss prevention was also a selling point; with their data stored
Aware that their organization faces risks of data separately with a third party, they can be sure that
loss from accidental deletion, system errors, any Microsoft service disruptions do not affect
and cyberattacks, Penta Hospitals was looking their data backups. Additionally, Penta Hospitals
for a backup solution with robust data security wanted to make use of Keepit’s 3-2-1 backup
and data retention. Their research showed that rule which ensures 3 copies of data, across two
Keepit offers a reliable backup and recovery types of storage media, with one off-site copy.
solution which provides the guarantee that any Such measures ensure that all hospital data is truly,
accidentally or maliciously deleted data can be securely, independently backed up.
recovered. Keepit’s independent cloud backup
“I don’t think that you will find a better solution
than Keepit when it comes to securing your SaaS
data across multiple applications and ensuring
robust, independent data security.”
- Leonard Haraslin
Penta Hospitals Information and Cyber Security Specialist

--- Page 3 ---
Customer case:
Penta Hospitals
Fulfilled compliance requirement for the new NIS2 directive
With the introduction of the NIS2 directive across the
EU in October 2024, Penta Hospitals had a new need to
comply with this amendment to the law on cybersecurity.
Such directives are indicators of times to come. Optimal
cybersecurity is no longer a “nice to have” – it’s a necessity.
Penta Hospitals chose Keepit for its ability to ensure it
meets stringent compliance requirements - such as the
NIS2 directive. Keepit further makes compliance easier by
About Penta Hospitals:
providing flexible retention policies and detailed audit trails,
Penta Hospitals Slovakia is part of Penta
allowing the organization to both remain compliant and prove
Hospitals International, one of the largest
compliance when needed. For example, when the company
private healthcare networks in Central
was gaining ISO27001 certification, they used Keepit to Europe. They operate hospitals, outpatient
demonstrate how their services are backed up to help them clinics and specialized medical facilities
across Slovakia. Penta Hospitals take care
receive the certification.
of their patients in a better way every day.
Their vision is to become the first choice
for patients and inspire others to improve
“Since the new NIS2 directive arrived, we must take
healthcare in Central and Eastern Europe.
extra steps to comply with this new regulation.
Keepit makes it easy for our organization to store
data as per regulatory standards.”
- Leonard Haraslin
Penta Hospitals Information and Cyber Security Specialist
Keepit for Entra ID ensures smooth disaster recovery
Penta Hospitals also chose to utilize Keepit for Entra ID to
ensure simple, quick recovery in the event of a cyber disaster.
Serving as the key to their Microsoft data, the company was
aware of the importance of securing Entra ID to prevent losing
access to business-critical data. Backing up this environment
allows the company to quickly recover any hacked or
deleted data and deliver business continuity in the event of a
ransomware attack or accidental data deletion.
“It is absolutely critical for us to back up Entra ID
in order to ensure simple, quick recovery from
ransomware or other cyber disasters.”
- Leonard Haraslin
Penta Hospitals Information and Cyber Security Specialist

--- Page 4 ---
Keepit future proof
Take the next step toward protecting your SaaS data
Request demo
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection Headquartered in Copenhagen with offices and data
platform purpose-built for the cloud, by securing centers worldwide, over ten thousand companies
data in a vendor-independent cloud to safeguard trust Keepit for its ease of use and effortless backup
essential business applications, boost cyber and recovery of cloud data.
resilience and future-proof data protection.
HQ - Copenhagen Dallas, Texas London Munich
Denmark United States United Kingdom Germany
Keepit A/S Keepit USA Inc. Keepit Technologies UK, LTD. Keepit Germany GmbH
Per Henrik Lings Allé 4, 7. 3232 McKinney Avenue Suite 820 Warnford Court Maximiliansplatz 22
2100 København, Denmark Dallas TX 75204, USA 29, Throgmorton Street D-80333 München
CVR: 30806883 TIN: 85-358 6335 London EC2N 2AT, UK Amtsgericht München
+45 8987 7792 +1 469-461-4892 Company reg. no.: 13785045 HRB 270094
sales@keepit.com sales@keepit.com sales@keepit.com Geschäftsführer Morten Felsvang
sales@keepit.com
© 2024 Keepit. All rights reserved. www.keepit.com
