Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/Administration/Keepit%20DPA%20-%20EU%20Commission.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
EUROPEAN
COMMISSION
Brussels, 4.6.2021
C(2021) 3701 final
ANNEX
ANNEX
to the
COMMISSION IMPLEMENTING DECISION
on standard contractual clauses between controllers and processors under Article 28 (7)
of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Article
29 (7) of Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 of the European Parliament and of the Council
NOTE: Keepit uses the standard contractual clauses for controller-to-processor relationships
prepared by the European Commission (https://ec.europa.eu/info/law/law-topic/data-
protection/publications/standard-contractual-clauses-controllers-and-processors_en). These
clauses govern the processing of personal data between controllers and processors within the
EU/EEA.
These standard contractual clauses should not be mistaken for the standard contractual clauses
(SCCs) prepared by the European Commission relating to the transfer of personal data from
the EU/EEA to third countries. The SCCs for international data transfers are separate
instruments designed specifically to provide appropriate safeguards for cross-border data
transfers to jurisdictions outside the EU/EEA that do not benefit from an adequacy decision
under Article 45 of the GDPR.
EN EN

--- Page 2 ---
ANNEX
STANDARD CONTRACTUAL CLAUSES
SECTION I
Clause 1
Purpose and scope
(a) The purpose of these Standard Contractual Clauses (the Clauses) is to ensure
compliance with Article 28(3) and (4) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons
with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data.
(b) The controllers and processors listed in Annex I have agreed to these Clauses in order
to ensure compliance with Article 28(3) and (4) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and/or
Article 29 (3) and (4) Regulation (EU) 2018/1725.
(c) These Clauses apply to the processing of personal data as specified in Annex II.
(d) Annexes I to IV are an integral part of the Clauses.
(e) These Clauses are without prejudice to obligations to which the controller is subject
by virtue of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and/or Regulation (EU) 2018/1725.
(f) These Clauses do not by themselves ensure compliance with obligations related to
international transfers in accordance with Chapter V of Regulation (EU) 2016/679
and/or Regulation (EU) 2018/1725.
Clause 2
Invariability of the Clauses
(a) The Parties undertake not to modify the Clauses, except for adding information to the
Annexes or updating information in them.
(b) This does not prevent the Parties from including the standard contractual clauses laid
down in these Clauses in a broader contract, or from adding other clauses or additional
safeguards provided that they do not directly or indirectly contradict the Clauses or
detract from the fundamental rights or freedoms of data subjects.
Clause 3
Interpretation
(a) Where these Clauses use the terms defined in Regulation (EU) 2016/679 or Regulation
(EU) 2018/1725 respectively, those terms shall have the same meaning as in that
Regulation.
(b) These Clauses shall be read and interpreted in the light of the provisions of Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 or Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 respectively.
EN EN
1

--- Page 3 ---
(c) These Clauses shall not be interpreted in a way that runs counter to the rights and
obligations provided for in Regulation (EU) 2016/679 / Regulation (EU) 2018/1725 or
in a way that prejudices the fundamental rights or freedoms of the data subjects.
Clause 4
Hierarchy
In the event of a contradiction between these Clauses and the provisions of related agreements
between the Parties existing at the time when these Clauses are agreed or entered into thereafter,
these Clauses shall prevail.
Clause 5
Docking clause
(a) Any entity that is not a Party to these Clauses may, with the agreement of all the
Parties, accede to these Clauses at any time as a controller or a processor by completing
the Annexes and signing Annex I.
(b) Once the Annexes in (a) are completed and signed, the acceding entity shall be treated
as a Party to these Clauses and have the rights and obligations of a controller or a
processor, in accordance with its designation in Annex I.
(c) The acceding entity shall have no rights or obligations resulting from these Clauses
from the period prior to becoming a Party.
EN EN
2

--- Page 4 ---
SECTION II – OBLIGATIONS OF THE PARTIES
Clause 6
Description of processing(s)
The details of the processing operations, in particular the categories of personal data and the
purposes of processing for which the personal data is processed on behalf of the controller, are
specified in Annex II.
Clause7
Obligations of the Parties
7.1. Instructions
(a) The processor shall process personal data only on documented instructions from the
controller, unless required to do so by Union or Member State law to which the
processor is subject. In this case, the processor shall inform the controller of that legal
requirement before processing, unless the law prohibits this on important grounds of
public interest. Subsequent instructions may also be given by the controller throughout
the duration of the processing of personal data. These instructions shall always be
documented.
(b) The processor shall immediately inform the controller if, in the processor’s opinion,
instructions given by the controller infringe Regulation (EU) 2016/679 / Regulation
(EU) 2018/1725 or the applicable Union or Member State data protection provisions.
7.2. Purpose limitation
The processor shall process the personal data only for the specific purpose(s) of the processing,
as set out in Annex II, unless it receives further instructions from the controller.
7.3. Duration of the processing of personal data
Processing by the processor shall only take place for the duration specified in Annex II.
7.4. Security of processing
(a) The processor shall at least implement the technical and organisational measures
specified in Annex III to ensure the security of the personal data. This includes
protecting the data against a breach of security leading to accidental or unlawful
destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorised disclosure or access to the data (personal data
breach). In assessing the appropriate level of security, the Parties shall take due account
of the state of the art, the costs of implementation, the nature, scope, context and
purposes of processing and the risks involved for the data subjects.
(b) The processor shall grant access to the personal data undergoing processing to
members of its personnel only to the extent strictly necessary for implementing,
managing and monitoring of the contract. The processor shall ensure that persons
EN EN
3

--- Page 5 ---
authorised to process the personal data received have committed themselves to
confidentiality or are under an appropriate statutory obligation of confidentiality.
7.5. Sensitive data
If the processing involves personal data revealing racial or ethnic origin, political opinions,
religious or philosophical beliefs, or trade union membership, genetic data or biometric data for
the purpose of uniquely identifying a natural person, data concerning health or a person’s sex
life or sexual orientation, or data relating to criminal convictions and offences (“sensitive
data”), the processor shall apply specific restrictions and/or additional safeguards.
7.6 Documentation and compliance
(a) The Parties shall be able to demonstrate compliance with these Clauses.
(b) The processor shall deal promptly and adequately with inquiries from the controller
about the processing of data in accordance with these Clauses.
(c) The processor shall make available to the controller all information necessary to
demonstrate compliance with the obligations that are set out in these Clauses and stem
directly from Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and/or Regulation (EU) 2018/1725. At the
controller’s request, the processor shall also permit and contribute to audits of the
processing activities covered by these Clauses, at reasonable intervals or if there are
indications of non-compliance. In deciding on a review or an audit, the controller may
take into account relevant certifications held by the processor.
(d) The controller may choose to conduct the audit by itself or mandate an independent
auditor. Audits may also include inspections at the premises or physical facilities of
the processor and shall, where appropriate, be carried out with reasonable notice.
(e) The Parties shall make the information referred to in this Clause, including the results
of any audits, available to the competent supervisory authority/ies on request.
7.7. Use of sub-processors
(a) The processor has the controller’s general authorisation for the engagement of sub-
processors from an agreed list. The processor shall specifically inform in writing the
controller of any intended changes of that list through the addition or replacement of
sub-processors at least 30 days in advance, thereby giving the controller sufficient time
to be able to object to such changes prior to the engagement of the concerned sub-
processor(s). The processor shall provide the controller with the information necessary
to enable the controller to exercise the right to object.
(b) Where the processor engages a sub-processor for carrying out specific processing
activities (on behalf of the controller), it shall do so by way of a contract which imposes
on the sub-processor, in substance, the same data protection obligations as the ones
imposed on the data processor in accordance with these Clauses. The processor shall
ensure that the sub-processor complies with the obligations to which the processor is
subject pursuant to these Clauses and to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and/or Regulation
(EU) 2018/1725.
EN EN
4

--- Page 6 ---
(c) At the controller’s request, the processor shall provide a copy of such a sub-processor
agreement and any subsequent amendments to the controller. To the extent necessary
to protect business secret or other confidential information, including personal data,
the processor may redact the text of the agreement prior to sharing the copy.
(d) The processor shall remain fully responsible to the controller for the performance of
the sub-processor’s obligations in accordance with its contract with the processor. The
processor shall notify the controller of any failure by the sub-processor to fulfil its
contractual obligations.
(e) The processor shall agree a third party beneficiary clause with the sub-processor
whereby - in the event the processor has factually disappeared, ceased to exist in law
or has become insolvent - the controller shall have the right to terminate the sub-
processor contract and to instruct the sub-processor to erase or return the personal data.
7.8. International transfers
(a) Any transfer of data to a third country or an international organisation by the processor
shall be done only on the basis of documented instructions from the controller or in
order to fulfil a specific requirement under Union or Member State law to which the
processor is subject and shall take place in compliance with Chapter V of Regulation
(EU) 2016/679 or Regulation (EU) 2018/1725.
(b) The controller agrees that where the processor engages a sub-processor in accordance
with Clause 7.7. for carrying out specific processing activities (on behalf of the
controller) and those processing activities involve a transfer of personal data within
the meaning of Chapter V of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, the processor and the sub-
processor can ensure compliance with Chapter V of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 by
using standard contractual clauses adopted by the Commission in accordance with of
Article 46(2) of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, provided the conditions for the use of those
standard contractual clauses are met.
Clause 8
Assistance to the controller
(a) The processor shall promptly notify the controller of any request it has received from
the data subject. It shall not respond to the request itself, unless authorised to do so by
the controller.
(b) The processor shall assist the controller in fulfilling its obligations to respond to data
subjects’ requests to exercise their rights, taking into account the nature of the
processing. In fulfilling its obligations in accordance with (a) and (b), the processor
shall comply with the controller’s instructions
(c) In addition to the processor’s obligation to assist the controller pursuant to Clause 8(b),
the processor shall furthermore assist the controller in ensuring compliance with the
following obligations, taking into account the nature of the data processing and the
information available to the processor:
(1) the obligation to carry out an assessment of the impact of the envisaged
processing operations on the protection of personal data (a ‘data protection
impact assessment’) where a type of processing is likely to result in a high risk
to the rights and freedoms of natural persons;
EN EN
5

--- Page 7 ---
(2) the obligation to consult the competent supervisory authority/ies prior to
processing where a data protection impact assessment indicates that the
processing would result in a high risk in the absence of measures taken by the
controller to mitigate the risk;
(3) the obligation to ensure that personal data is accurate and up to date, by
informing the controller without delay if the processor becomes aware that the
personal data it is processing is inaccurate or has become outdated;
(4) the obligations in Article 32 Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
(d) The Parties shall set out in Annex III the appropriate technical and organisational
measures by which the processor is required to assist the controller in the application
of this Clause as well as the scope and the extent of the assistance required.
Clause 9
Notification of personal data breach
In the event of a personal data breach, the processor shall cooperate with and assist the controller
for the controller to comply with its obligations under Articles 33 and 34 Regulation (EU)
2016/679 or under Articles 34 and 35 Regulation (EU) 2018/1725, where applicable, taking
into account the nature of processing and the information available to the processor.
9.1 Data breach concerning data processed by the controller
In the event of a personal data breach concerning data processed by the controller, the processor
shall assist the controller:
(a) in notifying the personal data breach to the competent supervisory authority/ies,
without undue delay after the controller has become aware of it, where relevant/(unless
the personal data breach is unlikely to result in a risk to the rights and freedoms of
natural persons);
(b) in obtaining the following information which, pursuant to Article 33(3) Regulation
(EU) 2016/679, shall be stated in the controller’s notification, and must at least include:
(1) the nature of the personal data including where possible, the categories and
approximate number of data subjects concerned and the categories and
approximate number of personal data records concerned;
(2) the likely consequences of the personal data breach;
(3) the measures taken or proposed to be taken by the controller to address the
personal data breach, including, where appropriate, measures to mitigate its
possible adverse effects.
Where, and insofar as, it is not possible to provide all this information at the same time, the
initial notification shall contain the information then available and further information shall, as
it becomes available, subsequently be provided without undue delay.
(c) in complying, pursuant to Article 34 Regulation (EU) 2016/679, with the obligation to
communicate without undue delay the personal data breach to the data subject, when
the personal data breach is likely to result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of
natural persons.
EN EN
6

--- Page 8 ---
9.2 Data breach concerning data processed by the processor
In the event of a personal data breach concerning data processed by the processor, the processor
shall notify the controller without undue delay after the processor having become aware of the
breach. Such notification shall contain, at least:
(a) a description of the nature of the breach (including, where possible, the
categories and approximate number of data subjects and data records
concerned);
(b) the details of a contact point where more information concerning the personal
data breach can be obtained;
(c) its likely consequences and the measures taken or proposed to be taken to address
the breach, including to mitigate its possible adverse effects.
Where, and insofar as, it is not possible to provide all this information at the same time, the
initial notification shall contain the information then available and further information shall, as
it becomes available, subsequently be provided without undue delay.
The Parties shall set out in Annex III all other elements to be provided by the processor when
assisting the controller in the compliance with the controller’s obligations under Articles 33 and
34 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
EN EN
7

--- Page 9 ---
SECTION III – FINAL PROVISIONS
Clause 10
Non-compliance with the Clauses and termination
(a) Without prejudice to any provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and/or Regulation
(EU) 2018/1725, in the event that the processor is in breach of its obligations under
these Clauses, the controller may instruct the processor to suspend the processing of
personal data until the latter complies with these Clauses or the contract is terminated.
The processor shall promptly inform the controller in case it is unable to comply with
these Clauses, for whatever reason.
(b) The controller shall be entitled to terminate the contract insofar as it concerns
processing of personal data in accordance with these Clauses if:
(1) the processing of personal data by the processor has been suspended by the
controller pursuant to point (a) and if compliance with these Clauses is not
restored within a reasonable time and in any event within one month following
suspension;
(2) the processor is in substantial or persistent breach of these Clauses or its
obligations under Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and/or Regulation (EU) 2018/1725;
(3) the processor fails to comply with a binding decision of a competent court or the
competent supervisory authority/ies regarding its obligations pursuant to these
Clauses or to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and/or Regulation (EU) 2018/1725.
(c) The processor shall be entitled to terminate the contract insofar as it concerns
processing of personal data under these Clauses where, after having informed the
controller that its instructions infringe applicable legal requirements in accordance
with Clause 7.1 (b), the controller insists on compliance with the instructions.
(d) Following termination of the contract, the processor shall, at the choice of the
controller, delete all personal data processed on behalf of the controller and certify to
the controller that it has done so, or, return all the personal data to the controller and
delete existing copies unless Union or Member State law requires storage of the
personal data. Until the data is deleted or returned, the processor shall continue to
ensure compliance with these Clauses.
EN EN
8

--- Page 10 ---
ANNEX I LIST OF PARTIES
Controller(s)
Customer Entity Name: Specified in the Order Form
Custumer Entity Address: Specified in the Order Form
Conteact Person of the Controller
Name: Entered and kept up to date by the Controller within the Services
E-mail address: Entered and kept up to date by the Controller within the Services
DPO / Compliance Officer / Compliance Team (if appointed) of the Controller
Att.: Entered and kept up to date by the Controller within the Services
E-mail address: Entered and kept up to date by the Controller within the Services
Processor(s)
Entity Name: Keepit A/S
Address: Per Henrik Lings Allé 4, 7th floor, 2100 Copenhagen OE, Denmark
Att.: Data Protection Officer
E-mail address: dpo@keepit.com
EN EN
9

--- Page 11 ---
ANNEX II: DESCRIPTION OF THE PROCESSING
Purpose(s) for which the personal data is processed on behalf of the controller
The purpose of the processor’s processing of personal data on behalf of the controller is to
provide backup services whereby the controller can create and maintain data backup of certain
cloud solutions used by the controller at their discretion and initiative, and whereby the
controller can restore data back to where the data originally resided or download data using the
export/restore tools offered.
The Clauses, the Terms of Service along with the controller's configuration and use of the
backup services constitute the controller’s documented instructions to the processor for the
purpose of providing the backup services.
Nature of the processing
The processors processing of the controller’s data shall mainly pertain to providing a cloud-
based backup solution cf. the Terms of Service. The personal data will be subject to several
processing activities, including but not limited to any operation or set of operations performed
on personal data, solely by automated means, such as collection, recording, organization,
structuring, storage, adaptation or alteration, retrieval, consultation, use, disclosure by
transmission, dissemination or otherwise making available, alignment or combination,
restriction, erasure, or destruction. Such processing is carried out on an ongoing basis for the
duration of the controller’s use of the Services.
The processor does not access and is not familiar with the content of the backup data unless the
controller specifically instructs the processor to gain access hereto.
Categories of data subjects whose personal data is processed
The backup data may contain any categories of data subjects, and it is solely determined,
changed, and controlled by the controller. Data subjects may be customers, employees, patients,
professionals, minors, etc. The processor has therefore implemented and maintains the level of
security as described in Annex III.
Categories of personal data processed
The backup data may consist of any types of personal data about data subjects. It is entirely
dependent of the controller’s type of data and their use of the backup services. Personal data
stored by the processor may contain non-sensitive personal data (such as contact information,
bank information, names, addresses, e-mail addresses, information relating to criminal
convictions and offences, national identification numbers) or special categories of personal data
(such as health data, data revealing racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or
philosophical beliefs, or trade union membership, genetic data etc.) as defined in GDPR article
9. The processor has therefore implemented and maintains the level of security that takes into
account that the processing may involve a large volume of personal data, including personal
data subject to GDPR Article 9, which is why a ‘high’ level of security has been established.
Assistance to the controller
Taking into account the nature of the processing, the information available and insofar it is
possible, the processor provides reasonable assistance to the controller by appropriate technical
and organizational measures for the fulfilment of the controller’s obligation to respond to
requests for exercising the data subject's rights laid down in GDPR Chapter III.
The processor must assist the controller in ensuring compliance with any of the controller’s
obligations pursuant to GDPR Articles 32-36.
EN EN
10

--- Page 12 ---
Processing location
Processing of the personal data under the Clauses cannot be performed at other locations than
the following without the controller’s written authorization:
Processing of controller’s data will take place in the data centers designated by the controller,
cf. the Terms of Service.
The processor’s support organization may occasionally, as part of an ongoing support issue
with the controller, be requested by the controller to access personal data. The request and the
granting of access will be logged. Technical and organizational measures are in place to limit
access to personal data, and all support activities that requires access to personal data will be
performed by designated personnel located within EU.
Duration of the processing, storage and deletion
The processor’s processing of personal data on behalf of the controller may be performed when
the Clauses commence.
The controller can configure its own data retention rules within the backup services. Data
retention refers to the amount of time a data object remains in the backup after being deleted
from the controller’s cloud solutions covered by the backup services.
Upon termination or expiry of the Terms of Service and Clasues, the processor shall in
accordance with Clause 10 (d), at the choice of the controller either, (i) return all backup data,
including personal data, processed under the Terms of Service and the Clauses and any copies
thereof to the controller or (ii) delete all backup data, including personal data, processed under
the Terms of Service and the Clauses and certify to the controller that this has been done,
including for avoidance of doubt, delete such backup data from any computer, server, and/or
any other storage device or media, unless European Union and/or relevant member state law
requires storage of such backup data.
Notwithstanding the abovementioned, the processor will retain all data processed under the
Terms of Service and Clauses for 30 days after the deletion of the controller's account or
termination thereof. This “deletion retention” will ensure that the controller's access to personal
data can be reestablished after any conceivable targeted attack against the controller's primary
data and backup data. After expiration of the retention period, the processor will delete all
records of the controller’s personal data without undue delay.
Instruction on the transfer of personal data to third countries
The processor does currently not transfer personal data to third countries.
Miscellaneous
The Clauses, including all appendices and schedules, form an integral part of and are
incorporated into Keepit’s Terms of Service. Except as expressly set out in the Clauses, the
Terms of Service shall govern the parties’ contractual relationship, including but not limited to
limitation of liability, ownership of data, acceptable use of the Service, confidentiality, and
other commercial terms.
EN EN
11

--- Page 13 ---
ANNEX III TECHNICAL AND ORGANISATIONAL MEASURES INCLUDING
TECHNICAL AND ORGANISATIONAL MEASURES TO ENSURE THE SECURITY
OF THE DATA
The level of security shall take into account that the processing involves a large volume of
personal data including personal data subject to GDPR Article 9 on ‘special categories of
personal data’ which is why a ‘high’ level of security has been established.
The processor shall hereafter be entitled and under obligation to make decisions about the
technical and organizational security measures that are to be applied to create the necessary
(and agreed) level of data security. The processor may update the technical and organizational
measures from time to time, as long as the updated measures do not decrease the overall
protection of personal data. The processor has described its current technical and organizational
measures in a separate document, “Keepit Technical and Organizational Measures”.
Procedures for the controller’s audits, including inspections, of the processing of personal
data being performed by the processor
The processor will on yearly basis obtain an independent third-party audit concerning the
processor's compliance.
The parties have agreed that the following is sufficient for compliance purposes:
SOC2 audit and ISO 27001:2022 certification.
The processor will conduct independent third-party audits of its organizational procedures,
security, and assets on a yearly basis as part of its SOC2 audit. The audit report of the most
recent audit can be requested by the controller free of charge.
The processor may, at its discretion, discontinue its SOC2 in favor of another relevant audit.
The processor is ISO 27001:2022 certified and can provide the certification upon request.
The controller may at its own expense contest the scope and/or methodology of the report and
may in such cases at its own expense request a new audit/inspection under a revised scope
and/or different methodology, agreed by the parties.
Based on the results of such an audit/inspection, the controller may request further measures to
be taken to ensure compliance with the GDPR, the applicable EU or Member State data
protection provisions and the Clauses.
The parties have further agreed that the controller may carry out on-site audits at the processor’s
premises located at Per Henrik Lings Allé 4, 7th floor, 2100 Copenhagen Ø.
Procedures for audits, including inspections, of the processing of personal data being
performed by sub-processors
The data processor shall on a yearly basis obtain an auditor’s report from an independent third
party concerning the sub-processor's compliance with the GDPR, the applicable EU or Member
State data protection provisions and the Clauses.
Where the sub-processor forms part of the data processor’s organization, including by being an
affiliate of the data processor, such audit may be conducted as a consolidated or group-level
audit covering the relevant entities within the organization, provided that the audit sufficiently
addresses the sub-processor’s compliance with the requirements set forth in this section C.8. In
such case, a separate or individual audit report for each entity shall not be required.
EN EN
12

--- Page 14 ---
The parties have agreed that either of the following is sufficient for compliance purposes:
SOC 2 audit and/or ISO 27001 certification.
The SOC 2 audit and/or ISO 27001 certification shall upon request be submitted to the
controller for information.
EN EN
13

--- Page 15 ---
ANNEX IV: LIST OF SUB-PROCESSORS
On commencement of the Clauses, the controller authorizes the engagement of the following
sub-processors:
Name Location Role
Keepit Poland Sp. z o.o.
Supporting Keepit’s delivery of
(Wholly-owned EU based Poland
customer support services.
affiliate of Keepit A/S)
The controller shall on the commencement of the Clauses authorize the use of the
abovementioned sub-processors for the processing described for that party.
Prior notice for the engagement or change of sub-processors
In case of engagements, changes or disengagements of sub-processors, the processor shall
notify the controller directly in writing about such change with thirty (30) calendar days’ notice.
The controller will have twenty-five (25) calendar days to object to the change in writing to the
processor. The objection of the controller must be well-founded. Absence of any objections
from the controller shall be deemed a consent to the sub-processing.
In addition to notifying the controller directly in writing about such changes, the processor will
notify the change on its website, at www.keepit.com/data-processing-agreement/.
EN EN
14
