Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/case-stories/Keepit-KU-Leuven-customer-case-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Customer case
KU Leuven ensures
data sovereignty and
resilience with Keepit

--- Page 2 ---
Customer case:
KU Leuven
When one of Europe’s oldest and most respected universities set out to modernize its IT
infrastructure, data protection was at the top of the agenda. KU Leuven, home to more than
65,000 students and 12,000 staff, needed to ensure its move to Microsoft 365 would not
compromise the university’s strict data-sovereignty and GDPR requirements.
KU Leuven recognized early that Microsoft’s native backup tools were not sufficient for an
institution of KU Leuven’s scale and compliance demands and therefore launched a public tender
for a Microsoft 365 backup solution. The European IT solutions provider Cegeka reacted to that
tender, provided Keepit as the right backup and recovery solution, and guided the university
through its implementation.
A solution built for compliance and control safeguard against dependency and improved
KU Leuven operates under some of the strictest control over data retention and recovery.
European data protection standards. Handling
Keepit’s platform is built to ensure complete data
sensitive academic, administrative, and research
integrity and regulatory alignment. It provides
information means the university must maintain
an independent, immutable backup environ-
full control over where its data resides and how it
ment with flexible access controls and retention
is recovered. Keepit’s GDPR-compliant data
policies that fit complex compliance frame-
storage in dedicated European data centers met
works. With secure architecture and audit-ready
this requirement while ensuring complete inde-
transparency, Keepit helps organizations like KU
pendence from Microsoft’s cloud infrastructure.
Leuven maintain full visibility and control over their
Vendor independence was a decisive factor. cloud data — meeting GDPR and other regulatory
By keeping backups separate from Microsoft’s requirements with confidence.
ecosystem, KU Leuven gained an additional
“With Keepit, we’ve gained full confidence
that our academic and administrative data
is protected — and that anyone on our
service desk can perform a restore quickly
and easily.”
- Jan De Baere,
IT manager, KU Leuven ICTS Management Team

--- Page 3 ---
Customer case:
KU Leuven
“A great advantage of Keepit is that the
backup takes place outside the Microsoft
cloud, in European data centers. For
our compliance requirements, that
was absolutely essential.”
- Jan De Baere,
IT manager, KU Leuven ICTS Management Team
Proven reliability and a future-proof solution
About KU Leuven
Today, Keepit safeguards more than 1 petabyte
Founded in 1425, KU Leuven is one of Europe’s leading
of KU Leuven’s OneDrive data in its European
research universities and Belgium’s largest higher
data centers, with coverage extending across the
education institution. The university fosters innovation
university’s vast Microsoft 365 environment. The and collaboration across a broad range of disciplines,
platform’s fast, automated backups and user- combining centuries of academic tradition
with cutting-edge research and technology. KU
friendly restore capabilities give the university
Leuven serves more than 65,000 students and 12,000
confidence that its data is secure and easily
staff across its campuses in Leuven and beyond.
recoverable.
About Cegeka
Cegeka’s partnership with Keepit provided Cegeka is a global technology provider
the local support and technical assurance KU headquartered in Hasselt, Belgium, serving more than
2,500 customers worldwide and has a workforce
Leuven needed during the implementation.
of more than 9,000 employees across Europe, the
According to Jan De Baere, IT manager, KU
Americas, and Asia. Its comprehensive portfolio
Leuven ICTS Management Team, the combination includes application services, business solutions,
of Cegeka’s expertise and Keepit’s reliable quality engineering, data and AI, digital workplaces,
cyber resilience, networking and regulatory, and
technology created a future-proof solution
hybrid cloud.
that supports the university’s long-term digital
transformation goals.
“With Keepit, we have greater peace
of mind and we’ve reduced our operational
burden across the university’s digital
ecosystem.”
- Jan De Baere,
IT manager, KU Leuven ICTS Management Team
Your data. Here today. Here tomorrow.
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data
in a vendor-independent cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and
future-proof data protection. For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on Linkedin.
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved. Microsoft and Microsoft Entra ID are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.
