Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/case-stories/Keepit-KRONA-customer-case-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Customer case:
Krona
Krona revolutionizes security
and data protection of their
Google Workspace with
Keepit and IT partner Movti

--- Page 2 ---
Customer case:
Krona
Recently, Krona went through a process of Consulting with Movti was key to success
improving its internal information security, thanks At this time, Movti was already Krona’s partner in
to its partnership with Movti and the adoption of the Google Workspace project, which was also
Keepit’s backup and recovery services. a success story for deploying and adopting the
solution.
Krona’s cybersecurity challenges
Even though the team at Krona was aware of the Gilharde Wasneski, Krona’s Information
security resources offered in products it was Architecture and Security Coordinator,
already using, the company was experiencing explained that the company needed to protect
difficulty with the information retention period the its information, and there were several suppliers
former plans were offering. offering solutions for doing this. They had
confidence in Movti as their business partner, so
In other words, keeping these records for longer
when Movti presented the Keepit solution as the
than necessary was an issue that left much to be
ideal option for the challenges we faced, Krona
desired at the time.
was confident that this was the right solution.
The reality of not having a unified, easily
accessible platform for making fast backups and
displaying information was also something the
company’s IT team was missing.
“POC (proof of concept) was carried out where
our technology team tested the product.
Through this trial, we saw Keepit’s potential and
how it met our needs.”
– Gilharde Wasneski, Information Architecture and Security
Coordinator at Krona

--- Page 3 ---
Customer case:
Krona
The process of deploying and using Keepit
After testing and finalizing negotiations, it was time to
deploy Keepit.
A major differentiator is its intuitive, user-friendly interface,
allowing users to protect their important data efficiently,
guaranteeing the security and integrity of the information.
“The deployment process was very quick; every-
thing happened within the same week. Its usability
is truly a differentiator for both the IT team and our
colleagues.” About Krona
Krona is a leading Brazilian company in
– Gilharde Wasneski, Information Architecture and
the pipes and fittings market, offering
Security Coordinator at Krona
an extensive catalog of products within
the civil construction, infrastructure,
agricultural and industrial sectors
Results and the impact of using the solution
Founded in 1994, the company’s main
After using the solution, today Krona sees significant focus is on quality, innovation and
sustainability in its products. With a
improvements throughout the company’s information
successful track record, the company
security process - thanks to Keepit’s resources and how
today stands out for its technical
easy it is to use. expertise, production capacity and
commitment to sustainable development.
The solution has produced important results, such as:
• Greater data security and regulatory compliance
• Increased operational efficiency in the IT team
• Reducing the burden on local infrastructure;
• Cost savings (when compared to conventional solutions)
• Greater support for growth and innovation
• Rapid recovery after data loss
• Reduced risk of failures and interruptions

--- Page 4 ---
Keepit future proof
Take the next step toward protecting your SaaS data
Request demo
Keepit provides next-level SaaS data protection Headquartered in Copenhagen with offices and data
purpose-built for the cloud, by securing data in a centers worldwide, over ten thousand companies
vendor-independent cloud to safeguard essential trust Keepit for its ease of use and effortless backup
business applications, boost cyber resilience and and recovery of cloud data.
future-proof data protection.
HQ - Copenhagen Dallas, Texas London Munich
Denmark United States United Kingdom Germany
Keepit A/S Keepit USA Inc. Keepit Technologies UK, LTD. Keepit Germany GmbH
Per Henrik Lings Allé 4, 7. 3232 McKinney Avenue Suite 820 Warnford Court Maximiliansplatz 22
2100 København, Denmark Dallas TX 75204, USA 29, Throgmorton Street D-80333 München
CVR: 30806883 TIN: 85-358 6335 London EC2N 2AT, UK Amtsgericht München
+45 8987 7792 +1 469-461-4892 Company reg. no.: 13785045 HRB 270094
sales@keepit.com sales@keepit.com sales@keepit.com Geschäftsführer Morten Felsvang
sales@keepit.com
© 2024 Keepit. All rights reserved. www.keepit.com
