Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/EN/Keepit-NIS2-webinar-key-takeaways.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Navigating NIS2:
Essential cybersecurity measures
and compliance strategies
NIS2 Directive What’s new with NIS2?
The NIS2 Directive, set to be enacted into local • Broader scope of industries under regulation.
law by October 17, 2024, implements the most
• Managing directors are personally liable.
comprehensive cybersecurity regulation in global
history. It aims to bolster Europe’s defense against • More stringent supervision and regulatory audits.
cyber threats by standardizing cybersecurity
• Penalties can go up to 2% of global turnover.
measures across the EU, particularly for
organizations with critical infrastructure.
The NIS2 Directive imposes key obligations to
enhance cybersecurity within the EU. Senior
management must take responsibility for
cybersecurity, including risk exposure and risk
appetite. Organizations need to ensure their
supply chains have appropriate security measures
and implement clear incident handling and
reporting procedures.
Understanding your NIS2 responsibilities
Management responsibility Incident handling
Senior management must oversee Implement clear incident
cybersecurity, including assessing handling mechanisms and
risk exposure and risk appetite. reporting procedures.
Supply chain security Continuity and disaster recovery
Ensure your supply chain Develop and regularly test
has robust security your business continuity and
measures in place. disaster recovery plans.
© 2024 Keepit. All rights reserved.

--- Page 2 ---
NIS2 challenges
and concerns
1. Stretched IT resources 3. Industry-specific concerns “If you choose to
IT teams are overwhelmed Various industries are newly outsource, you can
with tasks, lacking skilled affected by NIS2 requirements,
obviously do that. But
personnel to manage incl. manufacturing and
the cybersecurity risk
cybersecurity effectively. pharmaceuticals, and
these industries are management continues
2. Underprepared for regulations particularly unprepared.
to lie with yourself.
Many companies are not
And this means you
adequately prepared for 4. Supply chain vulnerabilities
NIS2, particularly in reactive Many industries have been have to find a partner
measures such as disaster lacking attention on the that you can trust and
recovery planning. security of their supply
that has some equal
chain, and this may well be
a key vulnerability for your cybersecurity measures
organization. You need in place.”
to ensure that your entire
supply chain has appropriate – Soren Skibsted, Co-Chair of
security measures in place. IBA’s Presidential Task Force on
Cyber Security
What does a winning
NIS2 strategy look like?
To get your business ready for the regulation, the first step is to run a risk assessment to analyze
which of your processes and data is critical to protect in order to ensure business continuity.
Once you’ve done so, developing and regularly testing business continuity and disaster
recovery plans is essential for compliance.
1. Map critical processes 4. Document and analyze results
Assess and analyze critical business processes, After each testing session, document and
as well as the digital assets and systems analyze the time, accuracy and challenges
supporting them, to ensure business continuity. encountered to gain insights for improvement.
2. Prioritize 5. Update and improve
Identify crucial data, how to protect it and Continuously update recovery plans based on
prioritize what to recover first in the event testing insights, addressing weaknesses, refining
of an attack to minimize downtime. procedures, and adapting to evolving threats.
3. Test that it works
Frequently test that your contingency plans
and backups work to instill confidence in
your disaster recovery plan and promptly
address any identified issues.
© 2024 Keepit. All rights reserved.

--- Page 3 ---
Continuous
testing is key
The Map-Prioritize-Test framework can help guide you through
the process. To ensure compliance, it is vital to create a strong
disaster recovery plan and test continously to know it works.
You can read more about the framework and what to consider in
the testing phase in our blog post here.
Here at Keepit we offer
Deep understanding of EU regulations Commitment to compliance
As a European company based in Keepit holds end-to-end compliance
Denmark, we are well-versed in the certifications and is certified by both
intricacies of EU regulations, including ISO/ IEC 27001:2013 and the ISAE
NIS2, DORA, and GDPR, and their 3402-II, ensuring the highest standards
profound impact on businesses. of data protection and security.
Independent cloud operations Leading security
We do not use subprocessors and We deploy leading security measures,
operate our own independent cloud keeping your data safe in a fully air
infrastructure within Europe, with EU data gapped, separated environment with
centers in Denmark and Germany. We immutability by default and encryption
also have data centers in Switzerland, both in transfer and at rest.
UK, US, Canada and Australia.
Continue the conversation
Watch the webinar now on demand
Watch it now
Keepit provides next-level SaaS data protection purpose-built for the cloud, by securing data in a vendor-independent
cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience and future-proof data protection.
For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on Linkedin
© 2024 Keepit. All rights reserved.
