Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/product-sheets/Keepit-Jira-and-Confluence-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Keepit Backup and Recovery
for Jira and Confluence
Automated backups and swift recovery in a vendor-independent platform
Jira stores critical project management data such as issues, workflows, and sprint plans, while Confluence
holds documentation and knowledge bases. Due to limited native backup capabilities, a data loss incident
may disrupt operations, delay projects, reduce team productivity, or result in non-compliance and loss of
critical organizational knowledge.
Awarded for its ease-of-use, Keepit ensures that Jira and Confluence cloud data is securely backed up and
can be recovered swiftly and accurately when incidents occur. Keepit effectively minimizes the impact of
data loss and eliminates the burden on your teams.
Time-saving usability Assured data integrity Unified visibility
Easy to implement and intuitive, With Keepit, you’re certain that A single pane of glass for all backups
Keepit requires minimal expertise your backups are immutable. They across critical SaaS applications,
to use while delivering confidence can’t be modified or deleted. provides transparency, visibility, and
in your ability to swiftly recover your Stored in our vendor-independent easy reporting for managers and
data whenever you need it. cloud, your data remains leadership.
accessible at all times.
“Keepit was ultimately recommended by our
engineers after a thorough evaluation. I wanted
to have the recommendation from my engineers
as they’re the ones working with it every day.”
Matthias Gutt – Head of Digital Innovation and Smart Enterprise at LAPP
Keepit for Jira and Confluence are sold separately.

--- Page 2 ---
KEY CAPABILITIES
Flexible restore options Outstanding support Proactive monitoring
Restore objects in bulk or granularly to Included in all subscriptions, Keepit Data Protection and Anomaly
guarantee fast and precise recovery. support is there for you whenever you Detection Dashboards help maintain
need it. backup integrity and health and allow
Compliance and reporting for early identification, investigation,
Easily document and prove Unlimited retention and remediation of risks to data.
compliance with backup Customize retention for up to 99 years
requirements and data protection with no extra costs.
efforts.
JIRA COVERAGE CONFLUENCE COVERAGE
General: Sprints, Boards, Dashboards, Plans General: Users*, Groups, Group members,
(roadmaps),Filters, Permission schemes, Notification Templates, Blueprints
schemes, Priority schemes, Statuses, Service desk
organizations, Users*, Groups, Time tracking and Compass Pages: Page, Version history, Restrictions, Content,
components* Content version history, Child pages, Footer
comments and replies Footer comments version
Projects and Configurations: Project, Avatar, Components, history and replies, Inline comments and replies*,
Categories, Features, Roles and Versions. Screens, Tabs, Inline comments version history, Attachments and
Tab fields, Schemes version history
Issues: Issue, Attachments, Comments, Fields, Field Spaces: Space, Permissions, Properties .
configurations, Field configuration schemes, Links, Link
types, Priorities, Property keys, Remote links, Types, Type Blog posts: Blog post, Version history, Restriction,
schemes, Type screen schemes, Watchers Content and version history, Footer comments
and version history, Footer comment replies and
Workflows: Workflow, Workflow schemes and Workflow version history, Inline comments and replies*, Inline
schemes drafts comments version history, Attachments and version
We continuously extend our capabilities. We continuously extend our capabilities.
Find the complete, current coverage here Find the complete, current coverage here
Find out how simple
and easy it is to use Keepit
Book a demo
Your data. Here today. Here tomorrow.
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data
in a vendor-independent cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and
future-proof data protection. For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on Linkedin.
© 2026 Keepit. All rights reserved. Microsoft and Microsoft Entra ID are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.
