Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/product-sheets/Keepit-Autodesk-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Keepit Backup and Recovery
for Autodesk Forma
Continuous access to your Forma data when Autodesk goes down
Autodesk Forma (formerly Construction Cloud) holds a project's single source of truth — drawings, issues,
transmittals, RFIs, and cost data — entirely within its environment. Platform outages, accidental bulk changes to
users or roles, and account compromise can cut off access, and Forma has no native rollback. Without an
independent backup, teams have no fallback when access breaks down.
Awarded for its broad SaaS coverage, secure by design architecture, and ease-of-use, Keepit ensures that
your Autodesk Forma data is backed up and swiftly recoverable at all times, minimizing the impact of data loss
and the burden of recovery on your teams.
Time-saving Assured data Confidence
usability integrity that you can recover
Easy to implement and intuitive, Keepit With Keepit, you’re certain that your With our automated backups and hot
requires minimal expertise to use — while backups are immutable — they can’t be storage, you have all your data,
delivering confidence in your ability to modified or deleted. Stored in our vendor- configurations, and relationships always at
swiftly recover your data whenever you independent cloud, your data remains your fingertips — no matter what incident
need it. accessible at all times. is stalling your projects.
The risk Proven benefit
Construction was the No. 1 ransomware target within Keepit customers were able to reduce the time needed to
manufacturing in Q3 2025, accounting for 142 of 532 incidents restore data for priority users by 90% after a data loss incident.
— 27% of all manufacturing attacks.
Source: Forrester Total Economic Impact Study 2024.
Source: Dragos Industrial Ransomware Analysis: Q3 2025 | Dragos
“Forma is critical to our organization. Autodesk has
little direct support and implementation options for
backing up data and therefore this will be absolutely
beneficial and solve a real gap in our Information
Security posture.”
Connector Info
April Battenfelder, Managing Director at BEAST Design Studios GmbH, Germany
Autodesk Forma Healthy
Your data is protected

--- Page 2 ---
Keep your work safe and recover the
intelligent way.
KEY CAPABILITIES
Automated backups Outstanding ease-of-use Unlimited retention
Customize and automate backup jobs so Built to protect SaaS applications, Keepit is Customize retention for up to 99 years with
your data remains preserved and quick to implement and intuitive to use. no extra costs
recoverable whenever you need it.
Instant search and preview Highest security
Compliance and reporting
Easily find what you need with Keepit’s Stored in our vendor-independent cloud,
Easily document and prove compliance comprehensive search. Use filters to and immutable by design, Keepit offers
with backup requirements and data identify data, and the preview function to industry-leading security, keeping your
protection efforts. review it before restoring. backups safe.
What we cover
Modules: Build and Data Management
Users Projects
User definitions Definitions Recovery 24 hours Restore
User Projects Sheets
40
Project memberships Sheet collections Restores
Roles Sheet versions
Products Files and folders
Companies Packages
Issues
Definitions
Issue comments
User mappings
Issue attachments
Projects mappings
Issue settings
Templates
Transmittals
We continuously extend our capabilities. Find the complete, current coverage here.
Find out how simple and
easy it is to use Keepit
Book a demo
srotisiV
Connector Info
Autodesk Forma Healthy
Your data is protected
10K
1K
001/04/2023 04/04/2023 08/04/2023 12/04/2023 O1c6t/o0b4e/2r 2002233 20/04/2023 24/04/2023 28/04/2023 31/04/2023
Your data. Here today. Here tomorrow
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data in a vendor-
independent cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and future-proof data protection.
For more information visit keepit.com or follow Keepit on LinkedIn.
© 2026 Keepit. All rights reserved. Microsoft and Microsoft Entra ID are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.
