Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/product-sheets/Keepit-for-M365-product-sheet.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Keepit Backup and
Recovery for Microsoft 365
Keep your business running with the best Microsoft 365 protection
Company-wide loss of email brings disruption to every part of the business and has a ripple
effect — even after recovery. Microsoft sits at the heart of your operations, and with this
centrality comes risk, from accidental data deletion to unexpected systems downtime.
Under the Shared Responsibility Model, protecting data falls on you and as Microsoft states,
“one of the most important steps you can take to protect your data is to have a reliable backup
and restore plan.”*
With the market’s most comprehensive Microsoft 365 coverage, Keepit keeps your business
rolling with instant access to all your data, always.
* Source: Microsoft, Learn Azure Security Fundamentals
Time-saving usability Business continuity Unlimited storage
Set up a Microsoft 365 connector in Keep your business running with Keep unlimited backups without
minutes. Quickly find what you need instant access to clean copies of any extra costs. Free up space in
and restore anything, from a single your data, from documents to user Microsoft, cut storage fees, and
record to an entire dataset, in just a permissions, anytime you need them. advance your compliance efforts.
few clicks.
THE RISK FINANCIAL IMPACT PROVEN BENEFIT
85% of organizations reported at 90% of those reporting data loss Keepit customers were able to
least one data loss incident in the incidents suffered consequences, in- reduce the time needed to restore
past 12 months. cluding business disruption, revenue data for priority users by 90% after a
loss, and reputational damage. data loss incident.
Source: Proofpoint “The 2024 Data Loss Landscape”
Source: Proofpoint “The 2024 Data Loss Landscape” Source: Forrester Total Economic Impact Study 2024
“We considered Microsoft’s backup and archiving capabilities
to be insufficient for our purposes and were impressed by
the scope of Keepit’s backup and archiving capabilities,
as well as the granularity of their restore function.”
Thomas Ulrich – Head of Digital Workplace & Support Services, Saxo Bank

--- Page 2 ---
Take control of your Microsoft 365 data with Keepit
KEY CAPABILITIES
The best coverage Instant search Proactive monitoring
Keepit delivers comprehensive, Find what you need fast with Keepit’s Data Protection and Anomaly
granular backup for all key Microsoft powerful search. Use filters to locate Detection Dashboards help maintain
365 applications, offering unmatched emails, docs, and more. Restore or backup integrity and health and allow
coverage in the market share with a secure link in one click. for early identification, investigation,
and remediation of risks to data.
Unlimited retention Highest security
Customize retention for up to 99 years Keepit’s vendor-independent
with no extra costs, including data cloud and immutable-by-design
archiving for inactive users. architecture ensure your backups
stay protected.
WHAT WE COVER
Exchange Online Groups and Teams SharePoint OneDrive
Outlook Mail Chats Customization Documents (including
OneNote)
Contacts Conversations Document Libraries
Form Templates
Tasks Calendar Lists
Style Library
Calendar Planner Pages
In-Place Archives Files Permissions
Public Folders Channels Settings Find the
Sub-Folders Wiki pages Site Columns complete
User Permissions One-on-one, Site Content Types coverage here.
group, and meeting
Term Store
chat messages
Files in Public &
Private Channels
Channel Tabs
SharePoint
Secure your Microsoft 365
data in minutes with Keepit
Get a demo
Your data. Here today. Here tomorrow.
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data
in a vendor-independent cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and
future-proof data protection. For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on LinkedIn.
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved. Microsoft and Microsoft Entra ID are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.
