Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/EN/Keepit-Observability-and-intelligent-insights-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Observability and
intelligent insights
with Keepit
The integrity of backups is fundamental for recovery when data is lost and needs to be restored.
But even without a data loss incident, documenting backup activities is now a key requirement
for compliance and regulatory purposes. With the growing adoption of SaaS applications and
increasing regulatory pressure, having a single platform to support multi-SaaS environments
becomes a game changer.
As a cloud-native platform purposefully built for SaaS data protection, Keepit offers a set
of observability, analytics, insights, and reporting capabilities that ensure the health and
integrity of backups, identify potential risks to data, and provide a single pane of glass for SaaS
backup and recovery activities. It saves time, reduces complexity, and simplifies reporting and
compliance.
In this factsheet, you’ll find how our capabilities support observability and intelligent insights.
We’ll walk you through common challenges you might encounter in this context and describe
how Keepit can solve these challenges in a more intelligent way.
The challenge: Having a complete view of backup activities for a growing number of SaaS applications
managed by different teams across the business
Keepit’s solution
Unified platform across SaaS environments
With growing coverage of critical SaaS applications, the Keepit platform offers centralized visibility and
transparency over backup and recovery activities to functional managers and their teams. Expanding
beyond the traditional coverage of Microsoft 365 and Salesforce, Keepit also offers backup and recovery
services for Microsoft Entra ID, Power Platform, Jira and many more. We are continuously adding new
services so we can offer you the best, most complete end-to-end SaaS data protection service.
See which applications we currently protect here.

--- Page 2 ---
The challenge: Ensuring that backups are healthy and running accordingly so you are ready to recover
in the case of a data loss incident
Keepit’s solution
Healthy backups for fast recovery
Keepit’s job monitor as well as the monitoring and data protection dashboards give you an overview of
backup configuration issues and backup performance. To support continuous improvement, repeatedly
skipped items are automatically flagged so you can easily review them and take action.
The notification system complements these capabilities, always keeping you informed and driving fast action.
The data compare capability makes it easy to identify the most appropriate version for recovery.
Together, these insights help address issues and ensure backup integrity and health. With healthy backups,
you can be confident that your data is ready for recovery whenever you need it.
The challenge: Identifying risks to your data quickly
Keepit’s solution
Full insights into risks to your data
Keepit monitoring and anomaly detection help to identify potential threats and notify you when significant
changes occur to your backup data. It helps you proactively investigate and remediate issues affecting
your data and your backups.
The challenge: Documenting and reporting on backup activities for transparency, regulatory, and
compliance purposes across SaaS applications
Keepit’s solution
Complete transparency and confidence
Keepit audit log and dashboards guarantee transparency for managers and leaders. Reporting
capabilities equip you with documentation to confidently demonstrate the integrity of your backups and
regulatory compliance.
The challenge: Integrating data from backup and recovery activities into other systems
your organization relies on
Keepit’s solution
API-only architecture
Our API-only architecture allows you to integrate your backup and recovery into other systems, such as
SIEM to support integrating and streamlining business processes.
Together, these capabilities give you complete confidence that the data from your most critical
SaaS applications is not only securely backed up but easily recoverable when you need it, enabling
you to prove this fact to regulators and auditors no matter what.

--- Page 3 ---
Keepit continuously develops its observability, analytics, insights, and reporting capabilities to help
its customers’ ever-evolving needs. See how we helped a customer recover from a cyberattack
that compromised their Microsoft 365 user accounts and supported the incident postmortem
process by tracing back when and where changes on privileged Microsoft Entra ID objects had first
occurred, down to the attribute level.
“More than a simple backup tool, Keepit is an independent
SaaS cyber resilience solution encompassing powerful
recovery, cybersecurity and compliance features.”
Siddick Elaheebocus, Founder and CEO of INNOVISION
Keepit has received recognition for its leading backup and recovery platform. Keepit took home
the top prize at Cybersecured, Global Infosec, and the Cloud Awards 2025 for disaster recovery
and business continuity.
If you’d like to discuss how Keepit
can help your unique data protection
needs, let’s have a conversation.
Let’s talk
Your data. Here today. Here tomorrow.
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data
in a vendor-independent cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and
future-proof data protection. For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on Linkedin.
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved. Microsoft and Microsoft Entra ID are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.
