Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/case-stories/Keepit-ALPLA-Use-Case-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Customer case:
ALPLA
The most scalable
backup and recovery
solution for ALPLA’s fast-
paced cloud migration

--- Page 2 ---
Customer case:
ALPLA
ALPLA is one of the world’s leading Full Control of Business Data
manufacturers of high-quality plastic Microsoft’s restore options and retention
packaging with around 22,000 employees period do not meet ALPLA’s requirements.
across 45 countries. Keepit is a true enabler Toefferl saw the need for a third-party backup
for ALPLA’s journey to the cloud, providing that provided a retention period of up to 10
the IT Infrastructure team with intelligent years, which was easily accommodated with
backup and recovery to safeguard their Keepit. Now, Toefferl can easily identify and
cloud SaaS data. restore data at any time, like in the case of data
breach or during audits.
Saving Money While Scaling the Business
ALPLA’s rapid global expansion requires an As Keepit operates a cloud in multiple regions
agile Microsoft 365 backup and recovery across the globe, ALPLA can remain fully
solution that can keep up with this growth. independent of Microsoft’s data storage
Keepit automatically detects and adds new locations, ensuring compliance to EU
users to the backup set, saving valuable regulations including GDPR.
admin time. As an additional benefit, Senior
Data Center Engineer Stefan Toefferl is now
saving money by avoiding the costs needed
to maintain and scale on-premise backup
capabilities.
“Keepit allows us
to easily scale our
business, adding new
Microsoft 365 users
with no hidden costs.”
Stefan Toefferl
Senior Data Center Engineer
ALPLA

--- Page 3 ---
Customer case:
ALPLA
“We quickly figured out that we needed
a backup as Microsoft does not meet our
retention requirements. Also, the restore
options provided are extremely limited.”
Stefan Toefferl
Senior Data Center Engineer
ALPLA
Fast and Simple eDiscovery
Finding the right data to restore can be a tedious
task, especially when very little information is
provided by users. Keepit’s unique and intelligent
search features helps ALPLA easily identify and
restore data. For ALPLA, one of the most valuable
features is the option to share a secure link to
download a file, quickly getting the data back
to the users. Keepit provides more than just an
About ALPLA
ordinary backup - it helps ALPLA become more
ALPLA is one of the world’s leading
efficient in their daily IT operations, ensuring
companies for high-quality packaging
business continuity at all times. solutions. With headquarters in Hard,
Austria, ALPLA employs around 22,000
people across 45 countries producing
Looking Ahead
packaging for brands in the food, beverage,
Keepit’s simple and intuitive solution makes it pharmaceutical, oil and lubricant, home,
possible for ALPLA’s IT team to easily manage and beauty care industries.
the data of 10,000+ users. Toefferl characterizes
Keepit’s solution as simple and easy to
understand, requiring no training therefore saving
the team valuable time.
“We trust that Keepit provides
the most efficient and flexible
Having teamed up with Keepit to handle cloud
backup solution. An on-
SaaS data backup, proper data protection and
premise solution would be
management remains an integral part of ALPLA’s
much too cumbersome for
global expansion and safe journey to the cloud.
our team to maintain.”
Stefan Toefferl
Senior Data Center Engineer
ALPLA

--- Page 4 ---
Learn how Keepit can
securely back up and
recover your data
Request demo
Keepit provides next-level SaaS data protection Headquartered in Copenhagen with offices and data
purpose-built for the cloud, by securing data in a centers worldwide, over ten thousand companies
vendor-independent cloud to safeguard essential trust Keepit for its ease of use and effortless backup
business applications, boost cyber resilience and and recovery of cloud data.
future-proof data protection.
HQ - Copenhagen Dallas, Texas London Munich
Denmark United States United Kingdom Germany
Keepit A/S Keepit USA Inc. Keepit Technologies UK, LTD. Keepit Germany GmbH
Per Henrik Lings Allé 4, 7. 3232 McKinney Avenue Suite 820 Warnford Court Maximiliansplatz 22
2100 København, Denmark Dallas TX 75204, USA 29, Throgmorton Street 380639 München
CVR: 30806883 TIN: 85-358 6335 London EC2N 2AT, UK Amtsgericht München,
+45 8987 7792 +1 469-461-4892 Company reg. no.: 13785045 HRB 270094
sales@keepit.com sales@keepit.com sales@keepit.com Geschäftsführer Morten Felsvang
sales@keepit.com
© 2024 Keepit. All rights reserved. www.keepit.com
