Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/product-sheets/Keepit-for-BambooHR-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Keepit Backup and
Recovery for BambooHR
Taking care of your people and your business means keeping your HR data safe
BambooHR is mission-critical for companies, storing sensitive human resources data.
It’s often integrated with other applications such as productivity or payroll tools. Any
data or configuration loss — accidental or malicious — disrupts business operations and
exposes companies to legal and compliance risks. BambooHR doesn’t offer backups or
comprehensive recovery options, making it essential to integrate with a backup solution.
Awarded for its impenetrable architecture and ease-of-use, Keepit ensures that your data
is backed up and swiftly recoverable at all times, minimizing the impact of data loss and the
burden of recovery on your teams.
Time-saving usability Assured data integrity Confidence in recovery
Easy to implement and intuitive, With Keepit, you’re certain that your Have your data always at your
Keepit requires minimal expertise to backups are immutable — they can’t fingertips with comprehensive,
use — while delivering confidence be modified or deleted. Stored in our automated backups of your data
in your ability to swiftly recover your vendor-independent cloud, your data and metadata.
data whenever you need it. remains accessible at all times.
THE RISK PROVEN BENEFIT
In 2024, over 70% of data loss incidents were Keepit customers were able to reduce the time
caused by user mistakes. needed to restore data for priority users by 90% after
a data loss incident.
Source: Proofpoint - The 2024 Data Loss Landscape
Source: Forrester Total Economic Impact Study 2024
”Not only does Keepit provide us with a strong and
reliable backup, we also get instant recovery and can
share data across the company in less than a minute.”
Mario Hinterndorfer – Head of Group IT Infrastructure,
Lasselsberger

--- Page 2 ---
Retain access to your BambooHR data and settings with Keepit
KEY CAPABILITIES
Automated backups Outstanding ease-of-use Highest security
Customize and automate backups Built to protect SaaS applications, Stored in our vendor-independent
so your data remains preserved and Keepit is quick to implement and cloud, and immutable by design,
recoverable whenever you need it. intuitive to use. Keepit offers industry-leading
security, keeping your backups safe.
Instant search and preview Compliance and reporting
Easily find what you need with Keepit’s Easily document and prove Point-in-time recovery
comprehensive search. Use filters to compliance with backup requirements Restore data to an exact state from
identify data, and the preview function and data protection efforts. any historical point to reverse
to review it before restoring. accidental changes or corruption.
WHAT WE COVER
Employee data Company data Find the complete
coverage here.
Employee ID Company tables
Name, surname, Company fields
email, address
Company files
Employee tables
Time off types
Employee files
Time off policies
Time off requests
and registrations
Time off account balance
Find out how simple and
easy it is to use Keepit
Book a demo
Your data. Here today. Here tomorrow.
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data
in a vendor-independent cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and
future-proof data protection. For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on Linkedin.
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved.
