Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/product-sheets/Keepit-Okta-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Keepit Backup and
Recovery for Okta
Identities and access securely backed up and recoverable —
on a sovereign platform
Although it’s known Okta is critical for identity and access management, it’s not as widely
known, that under the shared responsibility model, you are responsible for the security and
integrity of data stored within Okta. That’s why implementing independent backup is a core
component in ensuring business continuity, security, compliance, and resilience.
Awarded for its ease of use, Keepit ensures that data stored in Okta is securely backed up and
can be recovered swiftly and accurately when incidents occur. It effectively minimizes the
impact of data loss and the burden of recovery on your teams.
Time-saving usability Assured data integrity Unified visibility
Easy to implement and intuitive, With Keepit, you’re certain that your A unified platform for all backups
Keepit requires minimal expertise to backups are immutable — they can’t across critical SaaS applications —
use — while delivering confidence in be modified or deleted. Stored in provides transparency, visibility, and
your ability to swiftly recover your data our vendor-independent cloud, your easy reporting for managers and
whenever you need it. data remains accessible at all times. leadership.
The risk Financial impact Proven benefit
80% of breaches involve Misconfigured IAM policies can cost Keepit customers were able to reduce the
compromised credentials or organizations up to $1.5 million annually time needed to restore data for priority
weak identity management. — from fines, unauthorized access, and users by 90% after a data loss incident.
Source: Verizon DBIR 2024 productivity loss. Source: Forrester Total Economic Impact Study 2024
Source: True cost of dispersed identity systems
“We have been able to split the responsibilities
for data protection among different
teams. This setup allows teams to work
efficiently and independently.”
Michael Bojko, System Engineer. Porsche Informatik

--- Page 2 ---
KEY CAPABILITIES
Automated backups Flexible restore options Compliance and reporting
Customize and automate backup jobs Restore objects in bulk or granularly to Easily document and prove
so your data remains preserved and guarantee fast and precise recovery. compliance with backup
recoverable whenever you need it. requirements and data
Proactive monitoring protection efforts.
Instant search and preview Data Protection and Anomaly
Easily find what you need with Keepit’s Detection Dashboards help maintain Unlimited retention
comprehensive search. Use filters backup integrity and health —allowing Customize retention for up to
to identify data, and the preview for early identification, investigation, 99 years with no extra costs.
function to review it before restoring. and remediation of risks to data.
WHAT WE COVER
Platform Identity and access Applications and Find the complete
management management integrations coverage here.
• Organization • Users • Applications
• Administration • Groups • API service
integrations
• General • Authenticators
• Customizations
• Identity Providers
Security and • Attributes
Mappings (IE)*
governance
• Security
• Policies
• Network Zones
Find out how simple
and easy it is to use Keepit
Book a demo
Your data. Here today. Here tomorrow.
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data
in a vendor-independent cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and
future-proof data protection. For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on Linkedin.
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved. Microsoft and Microsoft Entra ID are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.
