Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/case-stories/Keepit%20Ornskoldsvik%20Kommun%20customer%20case.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Customer case:
Örnsköldsvik Municipality
Örnsköldsvik Municipality
chooses Keepit for its
Entra ID coverage and
compliance benefits

--- Page 2 ---
Customer case:
Örnsköldsvik Municipality
In search of robust and reliable Entra ID data coverage, Örnsköldsvik Municipality chose Keepit
for its unparalleled, comprehensive Entra ID data protection – ensuring that their organization
can run smoothly even if Entra ID data is temporarily compromised. In need of independent,
third-party backup, Örnsköldsvik Municipality concluded that Keepit’s solution provided more
comprehensive disaster recovery and data restore than Microsoft retention restore. Finally, in
the interest of meeting the most rigid GDPR compliance standards, the municipality found that
Keepit makes it easy to ensure that their data is both safe and GDPR compliant at the same time.
Provides complete coverage for Entra ID - is not only secure and cost-effective but allows
and all Microsoft 365 workloads Örnsköldsvik Municipality to avoid disruption due
After comparing Keepit for Entra ID to to lost or inaccessible data by enabling instant
competitors’ solutions, the team at Örnsköldsvik search and comprehensive recovery across Users,
Municipality concluded that Keepit provided Groups, Audit Logs, and more. Additionally, data
the best Entra ID coverage on the market. As the compliance becomes simplified as users can view
organization is highly dependent on Entra ID user Entra ID at points in the past to quickly see what
access, any block to this system could bring the changes have occurred and provide corrections
business to a halt – and extended loss of access where necessary.
could have serious impacts. Keepit for Entra ID
“We are super dependent on Groups in
Entra ID. Our risk assessments showed that
a longer duration of access loss could have
serious impacts. Keepit for Entra ID ensures
comprehensive recovery of any temporary data
losses due to a cyberattack or user error.”
- Fredrik Westin
Technical Supervisor of the Microsoft 365 platform
Örnsköldsvik Municipality

--- Page 3 ---
Customer case:
Örnsköldsvik Municipality
Meets the highest GDPR standards
When it comes to compliance, Keepit facilitates meeting
compliance needs across the most stringent global
requirements. Örnsköldsvik Municipality needed a backup
and recovery solution that would both ensure that their
data is safe and ensure GDPR compliance at the same
time. As a European vendor, GDPR compliance is second
nature to Keepit. The service is built to make compliance
requirements easy to accommodate for customers.
About Örnsköldsvik
Forrester even recommended Keepit as the “best for
Municipality:
companies that need Microsoft 365 protection and GDPR
Örnsköldsvik municipality is the
expertise.” Örnsköldsvik Municipality chose Keepit to
municipality’s largest workplace. Just over
facilitate GDPR compliance and offer robust protection
5,000 people in municipal administration
against ransomware and aid in the necessary workflows for and municipal companies ensure that the
regulatory adherence. municipality’s 56,000 residents receive
good community services.
“The European data centers were a large driver The municipality is densely populated
with many international companies, a long
for us choosing Keepit. We needed a backup and
entrepreneurial and industrial tradition
recovery solution that could deliver the highest level
and a strong development focus where
of GDPR compliance – and Keepit leads the market collaboration is an important key. The
proximity to Umeå means that Örnsköldsvik
when it comes to ensuring compliance.”
is part of a larger labor market region in
- Fredrik Westin Sweden with a total of 200,000 inhabitants
Technical Supervisor of the Microsoft 365 platform and 13,000 companies. Örnsköldsvik
Örnsköldsvik Municipality is part of the scenic High Coast where
archipelago and rocks meet forest and
wilderness.

--- Page 4 ---
Customer case:
Örnsköldsvik Municipality
Better disaster recovery and data restore offered true, independent, third-party backup.
than Microsoft And while Microsoft can deliver protection for
In the current ransomware landscape, a potential some – but not all – of the organization’s business-
cyberattack is a matter of “when” – not “if.” With critical data, Keepit came out on top as the better
a need to recover quickly from a potential cyber workload for coverage, restore granularity, and
disaster, Örnsköldsvik Municipality was on the cost-effectiveness. Furthermore, since Keepit
lookout for a backup and recovery solution is independent of Microsoft authentication and
that could restore data quickly and ensure that storage, an attack on the organization’s tenant
business operations keep running as smoothly would not endanger backups – meaning that the
as possible. After doing their own research, municipality can still reliably access data even
Örnsköldsvik Municipality learned that Keepit when Microsoft is having service problems.
“Since using Keepit, we’ve noticed that the data
restore process is much easier than Microsoft’s.
Keepit offers independent backup separate to
Microsoft – ensuring our data is secure even if
Microsoft service is down.”
- Fredrik Westin
Technical Supervisor of the Microsoft 365 platform
Örnsköldsvik Municipality

--- Page 5 ---
Keepit future proof
Take the next step toward protecting your SaaS data
Request demo
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection Headquartered in Copenhagen with offices and data
platform purpose-built for the cloud, by securing centers worldwide, over ten thousand companies
data in a vendor-independent cloud to safeguard trust Keepit for its ease of use and effortless backup
essential business applications, boost cyber and recovery of cloud data.
resilience and future-proof data protection.
HQ - Copenhagen Dallas, Texas London Munich
Denmark United States United Kingdom Germany
Keepit A/S Keepit USA Inc. Keepit Technologies UK, LTD. Keepit Germany GmbH
Per Henrik Lings Allé 4, 7. 3232 McKinney Avenue Suite 820 Warnford Court Maximiliansplatz 22
2100 København, Denmark Dallas TX 75204, USA 29, Throgmorton Street D-80333 München
CVR: 30806883 TIN: 85-358 6335 London EC2N 2AT, UK Amtsgericht München
+45 8987 7792 +1 469-461-4892 Company reg. no.: 13785045 HRB 270094
sales@keepit.com sales@keepit.com sales@keepit.com Geschäftsführer Morten Felsvang
sales@keepit.com
© 2024 Keepit. All rights reserved. www.keepit.com
