Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/case-stories/Keepit-University-of-Limerick-customercase-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Keepit chosen as
partner for University
of Limerick’s disaster
recovery strategy
Customer success story

--- Page 2 ---
Keepit chosen as
partner for University
of Limerick’s disaster
recovery strategy
As a research-led university, the University of Limerick (UL) manages critical academic and
administrative data across its Microsoft 365 environment. As the University expanded its
cloud services, the IT team recognised an opportunity to enhance its disaster recovery
capabilities by introducing an independent backup solution for Microsoft 365 data and key
Entra ID and Intune configurations. To strengthen resilience and ensure critical data and
settings could be recovered in the event of a major incident, the University evaluated SaaS
backup and recovery solutions and ultimately selected Keepit.
LOCATION INDUSTRY EMPLOYEES
Ireland Higher education 2,130
Building a stronger disaster recovery
strategy “The solution had to be
Mark Twomey, Cloud Architect at the University immutable and separate from
of Limerick and a member of the Enterprise our Microsoft environment.
Architecture team within the Information
Because Keepit operates its
Technology Division (ITD), was the technical lead
own data centers, we know our
for the project and part of the implementation
backup remains isolated from the
team established for onboarding this solution. His
systems we rely on every day.”
role includes evaluating cloud technologies and
ensuring they integrate effectively within the Treasa Cunneen
University architecture and meet security and Head of Enterprise Architecture
University of Limerick
operational requirements.
Customer success story 2

--- Page 3 ---
“Entra ID and Intune contain the configurations and settings that make your tenant
function. If you had to rebuild all that tomorrow, it would be extremely difficult.”
Mark Twomey
Cloud Architect, University of Limerick
The team in UL recognised that protecting Evaluating vendors through a rigorous
process
SaaS data was part of its responsibility under
Microsoft’s shared responsibility model. UL conducted a formal tender process to
According to Mark and Treasa Cunneen, Head of evaluate potential backup solutions. Following
Enterprise Architecture at UL, the University had completion of this process, Keepit was selected
high-value information stored across its tenant, as the successful vendor.
and there was an internal expectation that the
Today, UL protects Microsoft 365 data for all
data was being backed up, just as it has been in
staff and students. The University also backs up
UL’s on-prem environment.
important Entra ID and Intune configurations and
The University also needed to support GDPR by settings.
ensuring backed up data remains within the EU.
Protecting configurations that keep
As a research-led institution, protecting research
systems running
data was another important consideration during
As device management, user management, and
the evaluation process to ensure alignment with
policy functions continue to move to the cloud,
NIS2 if required.
protecting this configuration data became just as
Ensuring data was securely backed up and important as safeguarding user files, making the
recoverable in the event of a major incident was ability to easily backup and restore these settings
critical, and the University viewed Keepit as a key a key project requirement.
part of its disaster recovery strategy.
The ability to protect Intune configuration
That separation gave the University confidence profiles, compliance policies and the groups
that its backup environment would remain assigned to these settings as well as Entra
available even in the event of a major incident objects, including BitLocker recovery keys, app
affecting its Microsoft tenant, helping reduce registrations and enterprise apps played a major
cloud concentration risk by keeping backups role in the University’s decision.
isolated from the production environment.
Customer success story 3

--- Page 4 ---
“Keepit’s support is excellent. I can
contact my account team or log a
support call through the admin portal,
and they’re usually back within a couple
of hours to help resolve the issue.”
Brian Kinane
IT networking
University of Limerick
The University sees this additional layer of
protection as a significant enhancement to its
disaster recovery capabilities.
Simple management, responsive support
Following deployment, the University found
the onboarding process straightforward and
collaborative. The project team worked closely
with the Keepit team to configure connectors, app
registrations, and prerequisites for the Microsoft
environment, including onsite support during
critical implementation stages.
The team at UL also values the day-to-day usability
of the platform, noting that the dashboard is
intuitive and easy to manage from an administrator
perspective. For UL, Keepit has become an
important part of strengthening disaster recovery
readiness and protecting the systems and
configurations the university depends on every day.
About University of Limerick
University of Limerick (UL) is an independent research-led university located in Limerick, Ireland. With over 18,000
students, including more than 3,300 internationally mobile students annually, UL offers undergraduate and
postgraduate programs across arts, humanities and social sciences, education and health sciences, science and
engineering, and business.
Your data. Here today. Here tomorrow.
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data in a vendor-independent
cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and future-proof data protection.
For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on LinkedIn.
© 06/04/26 Keepit. All rights reserved. Microsoft and Microsoft Entra ID are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.
