Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/product-sheets/Keepit-Jira-Service-Management-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Keepit Backup and Recovery
for Jira Service Management
(JSM)
When JSM data is lost, rapid recovery starts here
When JSM data is lost, corrupted, or deleted, your service delivery, SLAs, and customer trust are at risk.
Keepit protects your JSM data and configurations with automated, immutable backups and granular restore,
giving your organization an independent safety net that improves resilience, speeds recovery, lowers
operational risks, and ensures compliance. All in a unified platform for protecting data in critical SaaS
applications, including Jira, Confluence, and other productivity, identity, collaboration, and CRM tools.
Time-saving Confidence that
 Centralized
usability you can recover management
Easy to implement and intuitive, Keepit We guarantee direct access to all your A unified platform for all backups across
requires minimal expertise to use — while data and automated, immutable backups. Atlassian and other critical SaaS
delivering confidence in your ability to You can be certain your data can't be applications — provides transparency,
swiftly recover your data whenever you modified or deleted, and that it is always at visibility, and easy reporting for managers
need it. your fingertips. and leadership.
The risk Proven benefit
Without an independent backup, JSM teams risk Keepit customers were able to reduce the time
permanent data loss, limited recovery options, needed to restore data for priority users by 90%
compliance exposure, and costly disruption to
 after a data loss incident.
critical service operations. Source: Forrester Total Economic Impact Study 2024.
“Protecting multiple SaaS applications in one
platform allows us to ensure our most important
business data is consistently backed up and
recoverable without increasing operational Connector Info
complexity.” Jira Service Management (JSM) Healthy
Your data is protected
Gérard Korda, Head of IT Operations & Infrastructure

ZFV-Genossenschaft

--- Page 2 ---
Fast recovery for mission-critical
service data
KEY CAPABILITIES
Outstanding ease-of-use Point-in-time recovery Automated backups
Built to protect SaaS applications, Keepit
 Restore data to an exact state from any Customize and automate backup jobs so

is quick to implement and intuitive to use. historical point to reverse accidental your data remains preserved and

changes or corruption. recoverable whenever you need it.
Data compare Instant search and preview Compliance and reporting
Compare backup snapshots to identify Easily find what you need with Keepit’s
 Easily document and prove compliance
records added, modified, or deleted over comprehensive search. Use filters to
 with backup requirements and data
time, enabling precise recovery. identify data and the preview function to
 protection efforts.
review it before restoring.
WHAT WE COVER
Projects Assets Requests Issue
Components Global Statuses Request Issue
Form templates Global Icons* Request Attachments Issue Attachments
Organizations Object Schema Request Comments Issue Comments
Avatar Object Types Request Remote Links Issue Remote Links
Properties Object Attributes Request Voice* Issue Votes*
Issues Objects Request Watchers Issue Watchers
Work types Schema Statuses Request Participants Issue Worklogs
Roles Request Worklogs Chil d Issues
Queues* Chil d Requests Linke d Issues
Requests Linke d Requests
Request types SLAs*
Versions
*Backup only We continuously extend our capabilities. Find the complete, current coverage here.
Find out how
simple and easy
it is to use Keepit
Book a demo
Your data. Here today. Here tomorrow
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data in a vendor-
independent cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and future-proof data protection.
For more information visit keepit.com or follow Keepit on LinkedIn.
© 2026 Keepit. All rights reserved. Microsoft and Microsoft Entra ID are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.
