Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/case-stories/Keepit-Porsche-Use-Case-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Customer case:
Porsche Informatik GMBH
Porsche Holding Salzburg
migrates to the cloud,
chooses Keepit for
ransomware protection

--- Page 2 ---
Customer case:
Porsche Informatik GMBH
Initially seeking SaaS data backup to protect
their company from ransomware threats,
Porsche Holding Salzburg became a customer
with Keepit to ensure that their 30,000 user
accounts were secure and protected from
data loss.
“More companies are
Andreas Fackler and Michael Bojko, both System
affected by ransomware
Engineers at Porsche Informatik, share Porsche
globally. By working with
Holding’s story of migrating their data from on-
Keepit, we now have a
prem to the cloud. Read the full story to learn
solution if an event like this
how Keepit delivers SaaS cloud data protection
ever arose.”
on a global scale for Porsche Holding.
- Andreas Fackler
Making the switch: from on-prem to the cloud System Engineer
Porsche Informatik
After moving from a locally installed, on-prem
mail system to Microsoft 365, Porsche Holding
was on the lookout for a SaaS cloud backup
solution. After researching the SaaS data backup
solutions available, Keepit’s user-friendly, trans-
parent backup and recovery process was the
most appealing option for Porsche Informatik.
“We were searching for a SaaS
solution, and we didn’t want to back up
all the data on-prem. Keepit’s simple,
easy-to-use cloud backup delivered
what we were looking for.”
- Andreas Fackler
System Engineer
Porsche Informatik

--- Page 3 ---
Customer case:
Porsche Informatik GMBH
“We have been able to split the
responsibilities for data protection among
different teams. This setup allows teams to
work efficiently and independently.”
- Andreas Fackler
System Engineer
Porsche Informatik
Global scalability provides key benefits
With over 30,000 email accounts stored in their
system, Porsche Holding needed a solution that
was scalable. Keepit’s per user pricing model
made it simple and cost-effective to manage
accounts.
The solution also allows their colleagues in other
teams (SharePoint, Teams, OneDrive) to manage
and restore their own data when necessary. This About Porsche Holding
level of autonomy allows every team to manage Salzburg
their data, without needing support.
Porsche Holding GmbH is the largest and
most successful distributor in Europe. The
Approach Salzburg-based company was founded
in 1947 and operates today in 22 countries
Keepit’s European headquarters was also a key
throughout Europe, as well as in Colombia,
selling point. In fact, Porsche Holding’s security
Chile, China, Malaysia, Singapore and
department recommended that the data be Japan.
stored in the same location as the company.
With data centers in Germany and Denmark,
Porsche Holding could ensure that their data
would be stored in Europe. Of course, Keepit
always follows the 3-2-1 principle of backup,
where 2 copies of data are stored at separate
locations, and one copy is backed up in an off-
site, private cloud.
This principle ensures that their data can survive
any calamity, making it impenetrable to ran-
somware and accidental deletion.

--- Page 4 ---
Customer case:
Porsche Informatik GMBH
Fast and simple onboarding leads to a smooth start
After a quick, one-week onboarding process,
Porsche Holding shared their satisfaction with the
simple setup and friendly customer service.
They felt supported in the process, highlighting that
the Keepit team checked in regularly to make sure
that their onboarding was going smoothly.
“Based on official guidance from our security
department, it was important to have data
centers in the same location as our company.
Keepit’s European-based data centers were
the answer. (...) We felt perfectly supported in
the onboarding process, which only took one
week. If we have any questions, we always get
an answer. The Keepit team is trustworthy and
friendly.”
- Michael Bojko
System Engineer
Porsche Informatik

--- Page 5 ---
Learn how Keepit can
securely back up and
recover your data
Request demo
Keepit provides next-level SaaS data protection Headquartered in Copenhagen with offices and data
purpose-built for the cloud, by securing data in a centers worldwide, over ten thousand companies
vendor-independent cloud to safeguard essential trust Keepit for its ease of use and effortless backup
business applications, boost cyber resilience and and recovery of cloud data.
future-proof data protection.
HQ - Copenhagen Dallas, Texas London Munich
Denmark United States United Kingdom Germany
Keepit A/S Keepit USA Inc. Keepit Technologies UK, LTD. Keepit Germany GmbH
Per Henrik Lings Allé 4, 7. 3232 McKinney Avenue Suite 820 Warnford Court Maximiliansplatz 22
2100 København, Denmark Dallas TX 75204, USA 29, Throgmorton Street 380639 München
CVR: 30806883 TIN: 85-358 6335 London EC2N 2AT, UK Amtsgericht München,
+45 8987 7792 +1 469-461-4892 Company reg. no.: 13785045 HRB 270094
sales@keepit.com sales@keepit.com sales@keepit.com Geschäftsführer Morten Felsvang
sales@keepit.com
www.keepit.com
© 2024 Keepit. All rights reserved.
