Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/product-sheets/Keepit-for-Salesforce-Product-Sheet.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Keepit Backup and Recovery
for Salesforce
Reduce the impact and the burden of restoring your data and processes
Data corruption in Salesforce can occur due to accidental overwrites, integration errors, or
system failures, making recovery complex and time-consuming. Without precise restore
capabilities, businesses lose critical data, break relationships, or restore unnecessary
information. Incomplete, manual, or outdated methods lead to operational disruption and
compliance risks.
Keepit eliminates those problems by providing you with intelligent capabilities needed to keep
your data and metadata safe and easily recoverable, while ensuring visibility into the health of
backups in a single platform across SaaS applications.
Be confident that Easily identify and Flexible restore options
you can recover preview records Restore records with flexibility and at
Have all your data always at your Quickly identify the correct data a granular level, from specific objects
fingertips with comprehensive, to recover with smart search and and files to point-in-time snapshots.
automated backups of your data and previewer for data, metadata, files,
metadata. and attachments.
The risk Proven benefit
50% of Salesforce customers were unable to recover Keepit customers were able to reduce the time
their lost or corrupted data in a timely manner. needed to restore data for priority users by 90% after
Source: Forrester State of SaaS Data Protection a data loss incident
Source: Forrester Total Economic Impact Study 2024
“We have been able to split the responsibilities
for data protection among different
teams. This setup allows teams to work
efficiently and independently.”
Michael Bojko, System Engineer. Porsche Informatik
© Keepit. All rights reserved. Version 1.1

--- Page 2 ---
What’s in Keepit for Salesforce
KEY CAPABILITIES
Granular restore - Restore specific Files restore with user and object reassignment –
records, fields, and related data. Restore files based on active users while allowing
admins to reassign them to different objects to
Parent-Child relationship restore – Restore records
maintain proper associations and ensure usability.
while preserving parent-child relationships.
Selective metadata restore – Restore
Sandbox seeding – Populate sandboxes with
only the necessary metadata without
selected data sets while preserving relationships.
affecting the entire environment.
Data compare – Compare backup snapshots
Point-in-time recovery – Restore data to
to identify records added, modified, or deleted
an exact state from any historical point to
over time, enabling precise recovery.
reverse accidental changes or corruption.
WHAT WE COVER
Objects Object metadata Files and attachments Industry clouds
• Standard objects • All metadata available via • Attachments • Communications
• Custom objects the API is included in the • Files • Consumer goods
backup
• Unlimited parent/child • Content • Financial services
relationships • Documents • Health cloud
• Loyalty cloud
Find out how simple
and easy it is to use Keepit
Book a demo
Your data. Here today. Here tomorrow.
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data in a
vendor-independent cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience and future-
proof data protection. For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on Linkedin.
