Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/product-sheets/Keepit-for-GitHub-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Keepit Backup and
Recovery for GitHub
Your GitHub data. Always safe and recoverable.
Data loss in GitHub — whether malicious or accidental — can erase critical source code,
compromise security and compliance evidence, and halt development. With limited native
recovery capabilities, GitHub requires a reliable third-party backup and recovery solution
to avoid costly delays, rework, and risks to product integrity and business continuity.
Awarded for its broad SaaS coverage, impenetrable architecture, and ease-of-use, Keepit
ensures that your GitHub data is backed up and swiftly recoverable at all times, minimizing
the impact of data loss and the burden of recovery on your teams.
Time-saving usability Centralized management Confidence in recovery
Easy to implement and intuitive, A unified platform for all backups Have your data always at your
Keepit requires minimal expertise to across critical SaaS applications fingertips with comprehensive,
use — while delivering confidence — provides transparency, visibility, automated backups and flexible
in your ability to swiftly recover your and easy reporting for managers restoring of repositories, settings,
data whenever you need it. and leadership. metadata and more.
THE RISK PROVEN BENEFIT
In 2024, over 70% of data loss incidents were Keepit customers were able to realize a 163% return
caused by user mistakes. on investment when deploying the Keepit solution.
Payback was achieved in under six months.
Source: Proofpoint - The 2024 Data Loss Landscape
Source: Forrester TEI Report 2024
”Third-party backup is essential against accidental deletion,
insider threats, and to retain development history. Losing
such data or access to it during an outage, ransomware
attack, or GitHub service disruption can completely
paralyze development.”
Data Recovery Manager in an Energy and Utility enterprise in the USA

--- Page 2 ---
Be sure your development work is safe
KEY CAPABILITIES
Automated backups Outstanding ease-of-use Highest security
Customize and automate backup jobs Built to protect SaaS applications, Stored in our vendor-independent
so your data remains preserved and Keepit is quick to implement and cloud, and immutable by design,
recoverable whenever you need it. intuitive to use. Keepit offers industry-leading
security, keeping your backups safe.
Instant search and preview Unlimited retention
Easily find what you need with Keepit’s Customize retention for up to 99 years Compliance and reporting
comprehensive search. Use filters to with no extra costs. Easily document and prove compli-
identify data and the preview function ance with backup requirements and
Data compare
to review it before restoring. data protection efforts.
Compare backup snapshots to identify
records added, modified, or deleted
over time, enabling precise recovery.
WHAT WE COVER
Git Repository Repositories and We continuously
• Blobs and trees configurations extend our capabilities.
• R eferences • R epository settings
Find the complete current
• B ranches • Repository collaborators
coverage here.
• C ommits
• Tags
Metadata Collaboration
and other and documents
Planning and projects
• Teams • User • Pull requests
Find out how simple and easy
it is to use Keepit
Get a demo
Your data. Here today. Here tomorrow.
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data
in a vendor-independent cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and
future-proof data protection. For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on Linkedin.
© 2026 Keepit. All rights reserved.
