Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/case-stories/Keepit-Oxford-Use-Case-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Customer case:
Oxford University Innovation Ltd.
Oxford University Innovation
Ltd. chooses Keepit to
protect and handle their
intellectual property assets

--- Page 2 ---
Customer case:
Oxford University Innovation Ltd.
Ever since Oxford University Innovation
Limited (OUI) migrated to the cloud using
SaaS solutions like Office 365, OUI has been
using Keepit’s proprietary cloud-to-cloud
SaaS backup technology to protect its
intellectual property and restore sensitive
“We searched the market
data. If breached, the loss of this data has
extensively for backup and
the potential to cost one of the world’s most
restore products ahead of
famous academic institutions hundreds of
choosing Keepit as the right
millions of pounds.
solution for the University’s
needs for long-term data
Handling intellectual property assets for Oxford
retention.”
University involves retaining the records, of IPs
and related transactions, for a period of 33 years.
Lasse Thomsen
Highly valuable patents often form the basis Information Systems Manager,
for new companies with roughly 20 companies Oxford University Innovation Ltd.
spun out as commercial entities every year.
The consequences of losing data associated
with these patents would be huge, both from a
reputational and financial perspective.
“Keepit’s technology has demonstrated
to us that, even if Microsoft offered a
similar backup with long-term retention,
Oxford University would still opt for an
independent backup and restore solution
as an indispensable extra layer of data
protection, and as a vital component of the
University retaining control of its own data.”
Lasse Thomsen
Information Systems Manager,
Oxford University Innovation Ltd.

--- Page 3 ---
Customer case:
Oxford University Innovation Ltd.
“We searched the market extensively for
backup and restore products ahead of
choosing Keepit as the right solution for
the University’s needs for long-term data
retention.”
Lasse Thomsen
Information Systems Manager,
Oxford University Innovation Ltd.
Goals & Objectives
The core objective of integrating a SaaS data
backup solution was to protect the IP of the
commercial entities that emerge from the
University of Oxford, by providing OUI with
an additional 33-year data backup retention
period, meeting the requirement for intellectual
property protection.
About Oxford University
Microsoft’s existing backup and recovery Innovation Ltd.
systems did not provide the long-term facilities Oxford University is one of the world’s
required by OUI. Most data loss is often caused leading educational institutions,
supporting more than 50,000 jobs and
by simple human error and is difficult to identify
injecting more than £5.8bn annually
until it is already unrecoverable; thus, a long-term
into the UK economy. Oxford University
backup and recovery system was needed to Innovation is a subsidiary of the University
provide comprehensive redundancy, ensuring concerned with managing its technology
transfer and consulting activities. It is
best possible protection.
responsible for innovating new ideas
and protecting all data associated with
Approach the multitude of patents held by the
University.
After a rigid selection and security process
which evaluated Keepit’s long term value
as a partner for the University, Keepit was
onboarded just prior to its cloud migration
from Exchange 2010 to Office 365 to provide
additional security during the migration
process. The migration was able to happen
overnight with no data loss.

--- Page 4 ---
Customer case:
Oxford University Innovation Ltd.
To mitigate the dangers associated with data loss by
ensuring that quick data recovery is always possible,
OUI worked with Keepit to install its SaaS-based
solution to protect data in the cloud by automatically
backing up, finding and recovering historic data in a
matter of minutes.
The final stage is Keepit’s ongoing work with OUI as
an integral IT partner. Keepit’s support with moving
to the cloud ensures that all data is backed up and
protected correctly, and that it is not reliant on a
single provider for its data backup and recovery
systems.
Results
Since Keepit’s solution was integrated into Oxford
University Innovation’s systems, three critical data
restorations have been implemented. The ability
to retrieve this information will potentially save the
University millions, in mitigating the risk of losing
records related to the University’s assets. Keepit
continues to be a key partner for OUI thanks to its
ability to add new SaaS solutions over time. The next
step in the relationship is to provide help onboarding
more solutions to the cloud, such as Dynamics 365.

--- Page 5 ---
Learn how Keepit can
securely back up and
recover your data
Request demo
Keepit provides next-level SaaS data protection Headquartered in Copenhagen with offices and data
purpose-built for the cloud, by securing data in a centers worldwide, over ten thousand companies
vendor-independent cloud to safeguard essential trust Keepit for its ease of use and effortless backup
business applications, boost cyber resilience and and recovery of cloud data.
future-proof data protection.
HQ - Copenhagen Dallas, Texas London Munich
Denmark United States United Kingdom Germany
Keepit A/S Keepit USA Inc. Keepit Technologies UK, LTD. Keepit Germany GmbH
Per Henrik Lings Allé 4, 7. 3232 McKinney Avenue Suite 820 Warnford Court Maximiliansplatz 22
2100 København, Denmark Dallas TX 75204, USA 29, Throgmorton Street 380639 München
CVR: 30806883 TIN: 85-358 6335 London EC2N 2AT, UK Amtsgericht München,
+45 8987 7792 +1 469-461-4892 Company reg. no.: 13785045 HRB 270094
sales@keepit.com sales@keepit.com sales@keepit.com Geschäftsführer Morten Felsvang
sales@keepit.com
www.keepit.com
© 2024 Keepit. All rights reserved.
