Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/product-sheets/Keepit-for-Azure-DevOps-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Keepit Backup and Recovery for
Microsoft Azure DevOps
Protect and swiftly recover Microsoft Azure DevOps data for business continuity
Lose Microsoft Azure DevOps data and you’ve lost your software development brain and
nervous system. Under the shared responsibility model, Microsoft ensures the availability
of the platform, but your data is your responsibility. Without proactive backups or disaster
recovery strategies, the smallest mistake or malicious act can severely cripple your
organization’s software development lifecycle.
Awarded for its impenetrable architecture and ease-of-use, Keepit ensures that your data
remains accessible and can be recovered swiftly and accurately at all times. Keepit effectively
minimizes the impact of data loss and the burden of recovery on your teams.
Time-saving usability Confidence that Assured data integrity
Easy to implement and intuitive, you can recover With Keepit, you’re certain that your
Keepit requires minimal expertise to Have all your data always at your backups are immutable — they can’t
use — while delivering confidence fingertips with comprehensive, be modified or deleted. Stored in
in your ability to swiftly recover your automated backups of your data our vendor-independent cloud, your
data whenever you need it. and metadata. data remains accessible at all times.
THE RISK PROVEN BENEFIT
In the first half of 2025, Azure DevOps had 74 incidents Keepit customers were able to realize a 163% return
reported, affecting pipelines, repos, boards, and on investment when deploying the Keepit solution.
others. Payback was achieved in under six months.
Source: DevOps Platforms Show Cracks: GitHub Incidents Surge 58%, Azure, GitLab
and Jira Also Under Pressure Source: “Forrester TEI Report 2024”
“We quickly figured out that we needed a backup as
Microsoft does not meet our retention requirements.
Also, the restore options provided are extremely limited.”
Stefan Toefferl – Senior Data Center Engineer, ALPLA

--- Page 2 ---
Retain access to all your software development data in Azure DevOps with Keepit
KEY CAPABILITIES
Automated backups Flexible restore options Unlimited retention
Customize and automate backup jobs Restore objects in bulk or granularly to Customize retention for up to
so your data remains preserved and guarantee fast and precise recovery. 99 years with no extra costs.
recoverable whenever you need it.
Instant search and preview Compliance and reporting
Proactive monitoring Find what you need fast with Keepit’s Easily document and prove
Data Protection and Anomaly powerful search. Use filters to identify compliance with backup requirements
Detection Dashboards help maintain data, and the preview function check and data protection efforts.
backup integrity and health and allow it before restore or share with a secure
for early identification, investigation, link in one click.
and remediation of risks to data.
WHAT WE COVER
Projects and organization Planning and tracking Build and release pipeline Find the complete
Projects Azure Boards Pipelines coverage here.
Teams Backlogs Releases
Iterations Boards Environments
Areas Work Items Deployment Groups
Members Queries Agent Queues
Users Team Sprints Library
Agent Pools Delivery Plans
Deployment Pools
Reporting and collaboration
Repositories
Dashboards (including
widgets)
Wiki (project wiki)
Find out how simple and
easy it is to use Keepit
Book a demo
Your data. Here today. Here tomorrow.
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data
in a vendor-independent cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and
future-proof data protection. For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on Linkedin.
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved. Microsoft and Microsoft Entra ID are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.
