Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/case-stories/Keepit-Cognita-customer-case-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Customer case:
Cognita
Cognita and Keepit:
Scaling operations during
international expansion

--- Page 2 ---
Customer case:
Cognita
Growing at a rapid pace, global schools group Cognita required a compliant and reliable backup
and recovery platform to secure their vast amounts of sensitive student data in Microsoft 365
and Google Workspace. During the process of enhancing their group systems, Keepit has
proven to be a crucial partner by supporting the organization to scale and meet ever-increasing
cybersecurity standards, provide cost-effective backup and prepare the schools to tackle an
evolving regulatory landscape.
A platform that covers multiple workloads Confidence and support in achieving data
seamlessly residency
As a leading global schools group, Cognita and With increasing regulations putting a spotlight
its IT team take cybersecurity seriously. As they on data sovereignty, Cognita is ensuring their
were embarking upon a standardization of their ability to respond to any and all requirements
group processes, including re-architecting their coming their way. “Data residency is definitely a
systems, backing up Microsoft 365, Microsoft conversation we’re following. We are continuously
Entra ID and Google Workspace data was a top engaging with experts in our regions to ensure
priority. Keepit came recommended to Cognita that we are doing the right things. A solution like
by Phoenix Software, a longstanding partner Keepit can help us stay ahead of the curve by
focused on modernizing workplaces through providing data centers in multiple locations,” says
cutting-edge technologies. James Mallett.
The Keepit platform gives full visibility and control With seven data center regions, across the
over Cognita’s systems, providing one scalable Americas, Europe, UK, and Asia-Pacific, Keepit
backup platform that covers multiple SaaS can help Cognita store data in varying locations
workloads. This helps Cognita to be confident across the world, taking into consideration local
that all their critical data is backed up and easy to regulations and requirements.
monitor. “We’ve now got complete confidence
and visibility that all of our Microsoft 365 and “A solution like Keepit can help us stay ahead
Google Workspace user data is being backed up of the curve by providing data centers in
on a single platform,” says James Mallett, Head of multiple locations.”
Global Infrastructure at Cognita. He continues;
- James Mallett, Head of Global Infrastructure, Cognita
“Since Microsoft doesn’t guarantee our data,
I need a solution like Keepit. Data retention is
absolutely key for us, and ultimately the data is my
responsibility.”
“My job is to ensure business continuity,
compliance and resilience. I wouldn’t be
fulfilling my responsibilities if I didn’t rely on
a third-party backup provider like Keepit.”
- James Mallett, Head of Global Infrastructure, Cognita

--- Page 3 ---
Customer case:
Cognita
A platform that is easy to use – and budget
“The benefit with Keepit is that we can easily replace the
users when we need to – and because it’s a flat fee per user,
we have the ability to control our budgets,” explains James
Mallett.
With unlimited data retention and storage, Cognita has
one less thing to worry about when dealing with student
data. Other Keepit features such as the data monitoring
dashboard facilitate full visibility and control over data, and About Cognita:
who is accessing it. Launched in 2004, Cognita is an
extraordinary community of schools that
Ease of use also ensures that limited IT resources are used
share one common purpose: empowering
appropriately. “Like all other IT teams, we don’t have enough students to thrive in a rapidly evolving
hours in the day to do all the things we’d like, so an easy, world. With over 100 schools in Europe
and the US, the Middle East, Latin America,
smooth interface is a huge advantage to Cognita,” explains
and Asia, Cognita employs over 21,000
James Mallett.
teaching and support staff in the care
and education of more than 95,000
students. Together, Cognita schools
Easy integration and future-proof backup
provide a uniquely global education that
Keepit is easily integrated with existing, automated goes beyond grades to develop all-round
processes, giving IT and HR the confidence that employee academic excellence – equipping young
people with the agency, adaptability and
data is backed up and retained properly, all throughout the
positive attitudes that prepares them to
user lifecycle. Adding, moving and removing employees
grow, thrive and find their success in a
is seamlessly synchronized with Microsoft 365 and Keepit rapidly evolving world.
licensing to ensure accuracy and business continuity.
“I’ve used different backup platforms for Microsoft 365. I About Phoenix Software:
found that Keepit is a lot more responsive and a lot quicker,” Phoenix provides IT solutions and managed
says James Mallett when describing the Keepit platform. services to meet the unique objectives
of each organization they work with.
“We are really looking forward to rolling out Keepit backup
Their approach focuses on modernizing
and recovery for other important applications.”
workplaces through the utilization of
cutting-edge technologies such as cloud
The Keepit platform is poised to facilitate even more
and hybrid infrastructure, AI, cyber security,
workloads, ensuring companies like Cognita can secure
collaboration, and productivity solutions.
more applications through a one-stop shop solution.
“With Keepit, I can confidently attend any SLT
meeting and can assure them that every user data
is backed up.”
- James Mallett, Head of Global Infrastructure, Cognita

--- Page 4 ---
Resilience starts with
intelligent choices
Recover and restore your SaaS data
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data in a vendor-independent
cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and future-proof data protection.
www.keepit.com
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved.
