Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/Keepit-SEC-Guidelines_Guide.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
SEC guidelines
What you should do
now to be compliant
Throughout 2023, the SEC has introduced new
cybersecurity guidelines, aiming to set a new
standard for cybersecurity risk management
measures and reporting obligations. Now publicly-
traded organizations — and those that do business
with them — are incentivized more than ever to take
measures to minimize cyber risks and ensure business
continuity to ensure compliance with
these guidelines.
SEC

--- Page 2 ---
What to do now:
Get your business ready with
best practices
What you should do now is run a risk analysis and map out critical processes your
business relies on, as well as the technology supporting these processes. Once you
have established which of your systems and data is business-critical to back up, create
a strong disaster recovery plan and test to know if it works. You can use the following
Map-Prioritize-Test framework to help guide you through the process:
1. Map critical systems 3. Test that your backup works
Assess and analyze critical infrastructure across on- Business continuity testing is a key element of any
premises, native cloud, and public cloud envi- cybersecurity posture and a necessary part of the
ronments. Identify and prioritize crucial data, ensur- framework provided by the SEC. Ensure that your
ing business continuity. Don’t overlook SaaS ap- data recovery works:
plications like Entra ID; safeguarding identities and
− Validate restoration capability promptly.
credentials is vital. Neglecting identity and access
− Determine acceptable downtime.
data can impact business continuity even if other
− Regularly test backups for confidence in your
data is fully restored. Microsoft recognizes identity
dynamic disaster recovery plan and supporting
systems as more critical than human life support
software.
systems: read more about this.
2. Prioritize: What is critical to maintain
access to?
What kind of data do you have? How do you
protect it? What is the most critical data to regain
access to in the event of an attack? Are your CEO’s
emails critical to your business continuity? Or maybe
your logistics data, customer data, intelligence
dashboards, or code? Find out what you need to
recover first.

--- Page 3 ---
Choosing a backup and
disaster recovery partner
After implementing the above framework, your next task is to explore solutions
tailored to your requirements. When selecting a vendor, adhere to industry best
practices for data protection. Consider the following:
Security and privacy: Encryption and immutability:
Choose a vendor you can trust to keep your data As natural targets for cybercriminals, backups need
safe. Implement access controls to safeguard robust data protection measures, both at rest and
against unauthorized access and process data in during transfer. Vitally important is ensuring data
compliance with privacy laws. Choose a vendor encryption and immutability to keep hackers from
with leading security controls that is proven to altering or deleting your data — even if they were
meet demanding regulatory requirements through to gain access.
security certifications so you know your data is
Vendor independence:
always safe.
Choose a cloud backup provider that ensures sepa-
Recovery time:
ration from your SaaS vendor’s public cloud. Employ
Recognize the impossibility of recovering petabytes air-gapping measures and secure data on distinct
of data within seconds. Prioritize solutions that logical and physical infrastructures. This safeguards
enable the swift recovery of identified critical data. against data loss during public cloud unavailability
Business continuity depends on both uninterrupted and prevents ransomware attacks from compromis-
data availability and minimizing downtime through ing your backups.
rapid recovery. Opt for a solution supporting granu-
lar, instant, and prioritized recovery of essential data.
Who do you trust to keep your data safe?
Here at Keepit, we:
Offer next-level data Own and operate our own Deploy leading security Guarantee full
protection for your infrastructure and data measures, such as air compliance with all
business-critical SaaS center regions across the gapping, immutability, applicable regulations
applications data globe so we can always and encryption both in and laws
ensure data accessibility transfer and at rest

--- Page 4 ---
SEC guidelines at a glance
What is the purpose of the new
SEC guidelines?
The recommendations of the SEC on cybersecurity aim
to strengthen cybersecurity resilience and increase
the security posture of organizations in the United
States. Next to cyber-incident reporting requirements,
organizations are required to describe their
cybersecurity risk management program and disclose
governance information in relation to cybersecurity.
The main goal is that organizations can maintain a high
level of readiness to execute critical functions during a
disruption (e.g., a cyberattack) or an emergency.
The SEC guidelines require backup
and disaster recovery
Organizations need to establish and maintain business
continuity plans to address events that may pose a
significant risk of disrupting their operations. As such,
this includes a requirement to protect business
SaaS data when it supports critical operations.
Who do the guidelines apply to?
The SEC’s guidelines apply to all U.S.-listed companies.
However, most public companies rely on smaller and
private companies throughout their supply chain and
the SEC clearly states that cyber procedures need
to be extended to all third-party vendors. Therefore,
whether public or not, organizations should familiarize
themselves with the new regulations and monitor
their preparedness. The ultimate objective should be
creating an effective cyber risk management program
and a solid business continuity plan, beyond just
completing compliance checklists.
Start a conversation today
If you’d like to receive advice on your compliance journey
and discuss which steps your business needs to take now to comply
with the SEC guidelines, let’s have a conversation.
Book a meeting
www.keepit.com
