Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/case-stories/Keepit-Prince-Alfred-College-customer-case-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Customer case:
Prince Alfred College
Prince Alfred College chose
Keepit’s cost-effective and
secure backup solution

--- Page 2 ---
Customer case:
Prince Alfred College
Working in the educational sector, Prince Alfred College ventured to find a secure backup
and recovery solution that could answer their long data retention needs. As a leading day and
boarding school for boys located in Adelaide, South Australia, Prince Alfred College must secure
Microsoft 365 data and ensure its easy recovery in case of accidental deletion or cyberattack.
Keepit was able to provide a cost-effective, consistent solution that would bring peace of mind.
Consistent protection against data loss or for as long as 22 years,” explains Chris Downing,
corruption Systems Engineer at Prince Alfred College. Keepit
Keepit’s backup and recovery for Microsoft 365 provides unlimited always-hot data storage,
is a surefire way to protect critical data as it’s ingress/egress, and retention, ensuring the
increasingly moved to the cloud. Prince Alfred college can always rely on meeting data retention
College’s primary data protection need was to needs.
restore data quickly in the event of accidental
Keepit offered a budget-friendly solution
deletion, and to restore data in bulk in the event of
In 2022, Prince Alfred College started their search
a breach.
for a cost-effective backup and recovery solution
As an educational institution in Australia, data for Microsoft 365. “We needed to back up our
retention was also an important factor when Microsoft 365 hosted data and were looking for
selecting a backup and recovery partner: “The the most effective way to do that. We looked at
Education sector in South Australia needs to free or low-cost cloud-to-on-prem solutions but
keep student records for 10 years after the Keepit’s low management overhead and simplic-
students’ last association with the school. This ity to configure and use made it a much better
can mean student information needs to be kept solution and worth the cost,” says Chris Downing.
“Cost for an education institution is always a key
factor. Any backup system we chose had to be
reliable and the ease of use we discovered with
Keepit made the decision easy.”
- Chris Downing,
Systems Engineer, Prince Alfred College

--- Page 3 ---
Customer case:
Prince Alfred College
With Keepit, Prince Alfred College benefits from Simplicity you can count on
Keepit’s flat, per-user pricing. With no hidden Keepit’s intuitive user interface and easy
or additional costs, it’s easier to budget — cost configuration were a positive surprise to Prince
always being an important consideration for Alfred College. The Keepit platform requires
educational institutions. no training, allowing you to locate, preview, and
restore data with just a few clicks. With an API-only
“Nothing beats seeing how simple it is to
architecture, customers can seamlessly integrate
stand up, manage, and use, and in the last
their systems for instant access to data recovery
three years, we haven’t had to worry about
and management.
data loss in Microsoft 365.”
- Chris Downing,
Systems Engineer, Prince Alfred College
Business continuity through reliable backup
and recovery
Business continuity is an increasingly crucial
factor for IT professionals in charge of vast
amounts of data stored in the cloud. “We have
approximately 400 staff and 1200 students that
rely on our systems every day. We would suffer
huge reputational damage should we not be able
to reliably recover our data after an incident,” About Prince Alfred College:
comments Chris Downing. Established in 1869, Prince Alfred College is a
forward-looking school with a proud history and rich
With Keepit, Prince Alfred College knows
traditions located in Adelaide, South Australia. Prince
student data is not only easily recoverable, but Alfred College is committed to providing a well-
also securely stored. Data received by Keepit is rounded and inclusive education for boys, with unique
programs and approaches that are tailored to their
encrypted in transit and before it’s stored. Data
specific needs.
remains immutable and always accessible for the
customer.
“The main impact of Keepit has been
that we now have one less thing to worry
about.”
- Chris Downing,
Systems Engineer, Prince Alfred College
Your data. Here today. Here tomorrow.
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data
in a vendor-independent cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and
future-proof data protection. For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on Linkedin.
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved. Microsoft and Microsoft Entra ID are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.
