Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/case-stories/Keepit-Danish-Cancer-Society-Customer-Case-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Customer case:
Danish Cancer Society
Danish Cancer Society
chooses Keepit to
protect against outages
& external cyberattacks

--- Page 2 ---
Customer case:
Danish Cancer Society
The Danish Cancer Society is the largest
patient association in Denmark devoted to
fighting cancer. The group’s main activities
are within research, patient support and
prevention. The Danish Cancer Society has
“There have been examples
around 800 full-time employees, more than
of the Office 365 service
400,000 members, and almost 45,000
being offline for a whole
volunteers.
day. Should this happen,
and we are unable to access
Collaboration is easier in the cloud our emails and files, it would
The Danish Cancer Society decided to migrate cause significant problems
to the Office 365 cloud infrastructure three for the society.”
years ago, providing increased flexibility, greater
- Jeanne Andersen
capability for mobile working and more secure
IT Systems Manager
access to data. IT Systems Manager Jeanne
Danish Cancer Society
Andersen explains that Office 365 has also
made it easier for employees to collaborate
on projects; moreover, the cloud infrastructure
makes it simpler to share information between
colleagues, departments, and external
stakeholders.
“It is important that we
are prepared for
ransomware threats, or
other malicious attacks
targeting our data. If we
did not have a backup
solution in place, it would
leave us in big trouble!”
- Jeanne Andersen
IT Systems Manager
Danish Cancer Society

--- Page 3 ---
Customer case:
Danish Cancer Society
The migration is an ongoing process, integrat-
ing more elements of Office 365 into daily use
including SharePoint to collaborate on projects,
and OneDrive for storing and sharing files.
“I have been in the IT business for more
than twenty years, and I’ve never
before experienced an onboarding
process that was executed with such
speed and efficiency!”
- Jeanne Andersen
IT Systems Manager
Danish Cancer Society
Why cloud backup is important
With the majority of the organization’s workflow
and information now in the cloud, secure, third-
party data backup became a top priority. The
About Danish Cancer
Danish Cancer Society also required a method
Society
to ensure constant access to their information
The Danish Cancer Society is the largest
during events like an Office 365 service outage,
patient association in Denmark devoted
external cyberattack, etc. In order to fulfil these to fighting cancer. Its aims are to prevent
requirements, Keepit was selected as the the development of cancer, to improve
patients’ chances of successful recovery
Office 365 backup and recovery solution.
and to limit the physical, psychological
Easy onboarding with Keepit and social side-effects of cancer. The
The Danish Cancer Society was fully satisfied group’s main activities are within research,
patient support and prevention. The
with the service provided by Keepit’s staff.
Danish Cancer Society has around 800
Andersen’s IT team enjoyed an effective
full-time employees, more than 400,000
dialogue with Keepit’s support team during and members, and almost 45,000 volunteers.
after the process of connecting their Office
365 service to Keepit.
In addition to being confident that their
organization’s data is securely backed up
and always available, Anderson notes some
additional benefits from using Keepit. Next
steps for the Danish Cancer Society include
using Teams for Office 365, which will also be
automatically and securely backed up as part of
the Keepit service.

--- Page 4 ---
Learn how Keepit can
securely back up and
recover your data
Request demo
Keepit provides next-level SaaS data protection Headquartered in Copenhagen with offices and data
purpose-built for the cloud, by securing data in a centers worldwide, over ten thousand companies
vendor-independent cloud to safeguard essential trust Keepit for its ease of use and effortless backup
business applications, boost cyber resilience and and recovery of cloud data.
future-proof data protection.
HQ - Copenhagen Dallas, Texas London Munich
Denmark United States United Kingdom Germany
Keepit A/S Keepit USA Inc. Keepit Technologies UK, LTD. Keepit Germany GmbH
Per Henrik Lings Allé 4, 7. 3232 McKinney Avenue Suite 820 Warnford Court Maximiliansplatz 22
2100 København, Denmark Dallas TX 75204, USA 29, Throgmorton Street 380639 München
CVR: 30806883 TIN: 85-358 6335 London EC2N 2AT, UK Amtsgericht München,
+45 8987 7792 +1 469-461-4892 Company reg. no.: 13785045 HRB 270094
sales@keepit.com sales@keepit.com sales@keepit.com Geschäftsführer Morten Felsvang
sales@keepit.com
www.keepit.com
© 2024 Keepit. All rights reserved.
