Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/EN/Keepit-DORA-factsheet.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
How Keepit helps you
comply with DORA
What DORA requires you to do for
backup — and how Keepit stacks up
Keepit currently supports hundreds of One critical aspect of compliance under
financial institutions to fulfill complex DORA is ensuring that institutions have robust
compliance requirements related to data backup procedures in place for critical
backup and recovery for SaaS applications. services that are essential for maintaining
Effective from January 2025, the Digital business operations. Article 12 in DORA
Operational Resilience Act (DORA) marks a outlines requirements for backup and recovery
new phase in how financial institutions must policies, procedures and methods. Read on
approach cybersecurity and operational to find out how they align with Keepit’s core
resilience, and Keepit is here to support you, benefits and how we can help you comply.
and many more financial institutions, as you
navigate this compliance journey.

--- Page 2 ---
DORA requirement How Keepit can help
Article 12.2 — The requirement for backup and Commitment to compliance
regular testing
• As a European-born provider, Keepit is well-versed
“Financial entities shall set up backup systems that in the intricacies of EU regulations including NIS2,
can be activated in accordance with the backup DORA, and GDPR and offers detailed compliance
policies and procedures, as well as restoration and documentation.
recovery procedures and methods. Testing of the
• With our efficient auditing and reporting, you can
backup procedures and restoration and recovery
document the effectiveness of backup processes
procedures and methods shall be undertaken
and prove that regular testing has occurred.
periodically.”
Article 12.3 — The requirement for segregated Independent cloud operations
backup systems
• Keepit’s unique architecture gives our customers
“When restoring backup data using own a fundamental edge with storage of backup data
systems, financial entities shall use ICT systems that in two separate, mirrored locations logically
are physically and logically segregated from the segregated from the production environment.
source ICT system.”
• To prevent data interruption and ensure high
availability, backed-up data is fully isolated from
SaaS vendors’ cloud, whether Azure, AWS, G Cloud,
or something else.
• We own our own data centers in 7 regions and
have complete control of our technology stack.
This means no use of any hyperscaler or cloud
infrastructure. Our cloud is operated from within the
EU, we have no data sub processor, and we are fully
Schrems 2 compliant.
“The ICT systems shall be securely protected from Leading security
any unauthorized access or ICT corruption and allow
• Keepit employs leading security measures such as
for the timely restoration of services making use of
strong encryption both in transit and at rest, as well
data and system backups as necessary.”
as immutability by default.
• Through secure user-based access control, data is
always protected from unauthorized access.
Article 12.6 – Timely data recovery Fast, granular recovery in-place
“In determining the recovery time and recovery point • Recovery of data is easy, fast, and granular with
objectives for each function, financial entities shall Keepit — whether you need to recover a single file or
take into account whether it is a critical or important larger sets of data.
function and the potential overall impact on market
• Any dataset, no matter how old, can instantly be
efficiency. Such time objectives shall ensure that,
accessed and data will be restored in-place with
in extreme scenarios, the agreed service levels are
metadata and hierarchies intact.
met.”
• Keepit supports prioritized disaster recovery plans
to make sure you get what you need to keep your
business running. Our customers have realized a
90% reduction in time needed for priority restores
— read more here.
Article 12.7 – Ensuring data integrity Immutability by default
“When recovering from an ICT-related • Keepit has been purposefully built to be tamper
incident, financial entities shall perform necessary proof, offering a guarantee that data stays
checks, including any multiple checks and immutable.
reconciliations, in order to ensure that the highest
• The application uses a Merkle Tree architecture
level of data integrity is maintained.”
which makes any low-level tampering impossible
and easily evident. A given requested data object is
unaltered from its original form.

--- Page 3 ---
Next steps toward DORA compliance
Under DORA, financial institutions need to set up backup systems that can withstand cyber
incidents, system failures, and other disruptions. These backup systems are not simply a technical
requirement — they play a central role in ensuring business continuity. DORA’s requirements include
ensuring logical and physical data segregation, data integrity, access control, redundancy, and
timely recovery. Choosing a third-party backup provider with a proven track record in financial
services can help ensure compliance while also mitigating risks in the event of an incident.
Keepit has significant experience in supporting financial Customer Story: Saxobank
institutions with their data protection and compliance
needs. See why customers like Saxo Bank choose us for
helping them navigate complex compliance requirements.
“It is very important to back up our Microsoft
applications in a sophisticated and fulsome
manner. We considered Microsoft’s backup and
archiving capabilities to be insufficient for our
Saxo Bank uses Keepit to In 2019, Saxo Bank implemented Keepit as the backup
purposes and were impressed by the scope of protect critical financial a O n ffi d c r e e c 3 o 6 v 5 e . r S y a s x e o r v B ic a e n k fo h r a a s l l r e e m ce p n l t o ly y e im es p o le n m M e i n c t r e o d s oft
Microsoft Teams and plans to introduce more features
data going forward in collaboration with Keepit as the trusted
provider, protecting their cloud SaaS data.
Keepit’s backup and archiving capabilities, as
An impressive element of Keepit’s solution is that it often
takes only minutes to find and share the specific item with
our Legal team, whilst it often took much longer with our
well as the granularity of their restore function.” on-prem solution.
Thomas Ulrich
Head of Digital Workplace & Support Services
Saxo Bank
Thomas Ulrich, Head of Digital Workplace Navigating Complex Compliance
A multinational financial services provider, Saxo Bank is
& Support Services, Saxo Bank s a u c b ro je s c s t i t t s o o s p tr e in ra g t e io n n t s c o w m or p ld lia w n id c e e . a Th n i d s i r n e g tu u r l n a t r o e r q y u c ir o e n s t a ro n l
efficient search function that enables Saxo Bank to find
and share specific data with its legal team within minutes.
Keepit’s unique find and restore features facilitates this.
Page 1
If you don’t want to take our customers’ word for it, Keepit was recently
awarded “Most Innovative, Compliance” at the 2024 Global Infosec
Awards. The Keepit platform has received multiple industry awards,
underscoring our commitment to security and compliance.
If you’d like to receive advice on your compliance journey and discuss how Keepit can help you
comply with DORA, let’s have a conversation.
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform
purpose-built for the cloud by securing data in a vendor-
independent cloud to safeguard essential business
applications, boost cyber resilience, and future-proof data
protection.
For more information visit www.keepit.com
or follow Keepit on Linkedin.
