Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/case-stories/Keepit-Griesser-customer-case.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Customer case
Data availability and simplicity:
Keepit backs up
Griesser’s critical data

--- Page 2 ---
Customer case:
Griesser
Griesser is a leading provider of high quality and market-responsive solar shading solutions for
windows and patios in Europe. With European regulations dictating data retention periods, and
the company seeking an independent backup and recovery provider to cover its 1,750 users,
Griesser deployed Keepit to secure its Microsoft 356 data, including Entra ID.
Data availability and retention at the forefront provides unlimited data storage and retention
“Business continuity is a very important factor for its customers, allowing companies to not only
in production. If production were to come to a fulfill regulatory requirements, but ensure data
standstill, it would have far-reaching negative availability far into the future.
consequences,” explains Nico Guglielmo,
Head of ICT Platform Services at Griesser. The “Thanks to Keepit, we were able to achieve
company began its search for an independent a massive increase in data stability and
backup solution to secure its data — and comply availability.”
with data retention requirements — when the
- Nico Guglielmo,
decision to replace its on-premises solution with
Head of ICT Platform Services, Griesser
a SaaS solution was made. The Keepit platform
“The manpower required for the old solution was
around one day’s work per week. This has been
reduced to almost zero.”
- Nico Guglielmo,
Head of ICT Platform Services, Griesser

--- Page 3 ---
Customer case:
Griesser
Simple and easy to use platform
Choosing Keepit’s platform boiled down to the
simplicity of the platform. “Handling the backups
in the platform is very simple and self-explanatory.
We don’t have to worry about updates, availability,
maintenance or storage space,” continues
Nico Guglielmo. With IT resources and budgets
continuing to be a challenge for most companies,
Keepit’s solution reduces manual hours spent by
automating backups, simplifying maintenance
About Griesser
and ensuring security — all in one simple to use
In 1882, Anton Griesser laid the foundation stone for
platform.
today’s Griesser Group in Aadorf, Switzerland. The
company, which is steeped in tradition, has remained
Keepit’s platform streamlines data protection
committed to this location to this day, putting all its
with a single, intuitive dashboard that secures
experience into the manufacture of innovative and
SaaS applications like Microsoft 365 and high-quality sun shading products. The Griesser
Salesforce. The platform is seamlessly integrated Group is now one of Europe’s leading suppliers of
high-quality, market-driven sun shading solutions
with customer systems and requires almost
for windows and patios. With their commitment and
no training, allowing the location, preview, and
enthusiasm, around 1600 employees ensure that the
restoration of data with just a few clicks.
excellent reputation of the two independent brands
Griesser and weinor is confirmed time and time again.
Independent data centers in Europe
Griesser and weinor face up to the competition
Keepit owns and runs its own, independent cloud independently. Both are united by the common goal of
and stores customer data in seven regions across providing their customers with a better quality of life.
Griesser manufactures its wide range of sun shading
the globe. For Griesser, it was paramount to store
products in Switzerland (Aadorf), Austria (Nenzing)
data in Europe. Cloud-native and European born,
and France (Nice and Wolschwiller). Griesser has its
Keepit is completely independent from large
own companies in five countries and is represented
hyperscalers. “We are convinced that we have by partners in 20 countries. weinor manufactures its
chosen the right provider,” adds Nico Guglielmo. products for sun and weather protection on patios at
its main factory in Cologne and in Möckern. weinor is
active in over 30 countries through its partners.
“Our data is stored in an independent
data center in Western Europe. This was
important to us during the procurement
process.”
- Nico Guglielmo,
Head of ICT Platform Services, Griesser
Your data. Here today. Here tomorrow.
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data
in a vendor-independent cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and
future-proof data protection. For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on Linkedin.
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved. Microsoft and Microsoft Entra ID are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.
