Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/product-sheets/Keepit-for-Miro-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Keepit Backup and
Recovery for Miro
From brainstorm to backup: Keep your Miro work safe
Losing Miro boards and settings can halt projects, disrupt teamwork, erase critical IP, delay
releases, and force costly recreations. As a vital application for teams to plan, design, and
collaborate, it becomes essential to protect it from data loss.
Awarded for its broad SaaS coverage, impenetrable architecture, and ease-of-use, Keepit
ensures that your Miro data is backed up and swiftly recoverable at all times, minimizing the
impact of data loss and the burden of recovery on your teams.
Time-saving usability Confidence in recovery Centralized management
Easy to implement and intuitive, Have your data always at your A unified platform for all backups
Keepit requires minimal expertise to fingertips with comprehensive, across critical SaaS applications
use — while delivering confidence automated backups and flexible — provides transparency, visibility,
in your ability to swiftly recover your restoring of teams, spaces, and easy reporting for managers
data whenever you need it. boards, and more. and leadership.
THE RISK PROVEN BENEFIT
In 2024, over 70% of data loss incidents were Keepit customers were able to realize a 163% return
caused by user mistakes. on investment when deploying the Keepit solution.
Payback was achieved in under six months.
Source: Proofpoint - The 2024 Data Loss Landscape
Source: Forrester Total Economic Impact Study 2024
”Miro is an important part of our technology
stack, and we need an easy, reliable way
to back it up and protect our data”
Chief Technology Officer in a mid-sized publisher in the Nordics

--- Page 2 ---
Retain full access to your Miro data and settings with Keepit
KEY CAPABILITIES
Automated backups Outstanding ease-of-use Data compare
Customize and automate backup jobs Built to protect SaaS applications, Compare backup snapshots to identify
so your data remains preserved and Keepit is quick to implement and records added, modified, or deleted
recoverable whenever you need it. intuitive to use. over time, enabling precise recovery.
Instant search and preview Highest security Unlimited retention
Easily find what you need with Keepit’s Stored in our vendor-independent Customize retention for up to 99 years
comprehensive search. Use filters to cloud, and immutable by design, with no extra costs.
identify data, and the preview function Keepit offers industry-leading security,
to review it before restoring. keeping your backups safe. Compliance and reporting
Easily document and prove compliance
with backup requirements and data
protection efforts.
WHAT WE COVER
Teams Spaces Find the complete
coverage here.
• Boards • Boards
• Spaces • Members
• Members • Settings
• Settings
Board items
Boards • App cards
• Members • Cards
• Connectors • Documents
• Frames • Embeds
• Groups • Formats
• Items • Images
• Tags • Shapes
• Sticky notes
• Texts
Find out how simple and
easy Keepit is to use
Get a demo
Your data. Here today. Here tomorrow.
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data
in a vendor-independent cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and
future-proof data protection. For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on Linkedin.
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved.
