Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/case-stories/Keepit-HDI-customer-case-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Customer case:
HDI
HDI trusts Keepit
HDI head office HDI head office
to comply with
European regulations
HDI head office in Hanover, Germany
6 7

--- Page 2 ---
Customer case:
HDI
Insurance solutions provider HDI handles some of the most sensitive personal data available
in its operations, making it critical for it to choose a backup and recovery partner it can trust.
Keepit ensures HDI’s Microsoft Entra ID is not only securely backed up but also compliant with
regulations such as the Digital Operations Resilience Act (DORA).
Nonstop availability at the center of compliance Keepit’s independent cloud and data centers
As an insurance company, HDI handles sensitive as a differentiator
data that is overseen by some of the toughest Keepit is the world’s only vendor-independent
regulations in Europe, including the Digital cloud for SaaS data protection. With data centers
Operational Resilience Act (DORA). “In Germany, in seven regions, including Europe, customers can
for example, we need to have 24/7 availability be sure of both data security and sovereignty.
as we’re considered critical infrastructure and
Keepit Backup for Microsoft Entra ID gives
regulated under BaFin and DORA; insurance
companies like HDI visibility into their data
fees need to be paid out in the case of a crisis,”
by detecting what changes have occurred
explains Philipp Poppe from HDI.
and allowing them to correct them quickly—
Keepit’s solution can provide HDI with needed something an insurance provider like HDI requires
confidence that all backups will be available, if to keep its systems compliant.
needed. Other features such as immutability by
“Keepit has their own data centers, so we
default and granular recovery make it easier to
are completely non-reliant on Microsoft
comply with any and all regulations and to provide
Entra ID in case of service outages.”
the necessary documentation for audits.
- Niko Pieper,
HDI Cloud Core Services
“We have the highest data protection needs
as we handle live data, personal data for life
insurances, and private insurances. We have only
a very short time range to get “back to live” in
case of a disaster.”
- Philipp Poppe,
HDI Cloud, Product Manager Core Services

--- Page 3 ---
Customer case:
HDI
Uncomplicated procurement process
In addition to the benefits of Keepit’s
platform, HDI also appreciated the swift
and uncomplicated cooperation during the
procurement process. As a backup and recovery
partner is considered critical outsourcing, HDI
needed to be sure its chosen provider could meet
their high expectations.
“We chose to do a proof of concept in our
procurement and ended up with Keepit after
testing multiple solutions. The discussions
About HDI:
around the contract and the purchase with
HDI VVaG offers property insurance solutions for
both Keepit and our joint partner Bechtle were
private and corporate customers, as well as special
very cooperative, which helped us to reach
solutions for the self-employed. The company is part
some timelines, which were tight,” told Philipp of the Retail Germany division of the Talanx Group.
Poppe, and continued: “Very fast replies and With insurance revenue of EUR 43.2 billion (2023) and
approximately 28,000 employees, Talanx is one of
easy discussions were also needed for our
Europe’s largest insurance groups. Talanx AG is listed
procurement department, which isn’t always that
on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange in the MDAX and on
easy, especially at a German insurance company.” the Hanover Stock Exchange.
Simplicity and ease of use
About Bechtle:
“We are three people managing a very complex
Bechtle is one of Europe’s leading IT service providers.
infrastructure, so an easy-to-use solution was a
Bechtle creates future-ready IT architectures
must,” said Niko Pieper.
including on-prem and multi-cloud infrastructures,
digital transformation and modern workplace
Keepit’s platform has been purpose-built for
solutions, resilient security, artificial intelligence and
the cloud and is easily integrated with existing a full range of managed services. With over 15,800
systems. The solution requires little to no employees operating from more than 120 locations
across 14 European countries, the company combines
training and can be set up quickly to ensure the
personal, local service with a digital offering as part of
customer’s backups are visible almost instantly.
their global multi-channel strategy. Bechtle is listed on
the MDAX and TecDAX indexes and generated €6.31
“We really appreciated how easy it was to billion in revenue in 2024.
set up Keepit, and (now) it’s very fast to
find what information you need when using
the platform.”
- Niko Pieper,
HDI Cloud Core Services
Your data. Here today. Here tomorrow.
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data
in a vendor-independent cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and
future-proof data protection. For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on Linkedin.
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved. Microsoft and Microsoft Entra ID are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.
