Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/case-stories/Keepit-Deutscher-Arzteverlag-customer-case-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Customer case
Reliable and fast
recovery for Deutscher
Ärzteverlag with Keepit

--- Page 2 ---
Customer case:
Deutscher Ärzteverlag
For more than 70 years, Deutscher Ärzteverlag has been a trusted voice in Germany’s medical
community. Based in Cologne, the publisher works with highly sensitive data every day — from
address lists for every doctor in Germany to confidential materials for medical publications and
associations. According to Thomas Wübbelsmann, Head of IT Infrastructure & User Helpdesk
at Deutscher Ärzteverlag, keeping that information secure is nonnegotiable. His team makes
sure data stays confidential, available, and fully compliant with GDPR while protecting against
unauthorized access or breaches.
Protecting critical Microsoft 365 data Business continuity is essential to Deutscher
Deutscher Ärzteverlag’s IT team supports Ärzteverlag’s publishing operations. Every two
nearly 200 users and safeguards about 10 TB weeks, the company produces and distributes
of data. As the organization expanded its use of the Deutsches Ärzteblatt, one of Germany’s
Microsoft 365, it sought a way to protect Teams, most prominent medical journals, to doctors
Exchange, and OneDrive against both accidental nationwide. Any interruption to its systems or
and intentional data loss. The goal was to find a loss of data could directly affect production
reliable, easy-to-manage backup solution that schedules, making reliable backup and recovery
could restore deleted files quickly and minimize capabilities indispensable.
operational disruption.
“Keepit’s ease of use, reliability, and European
data centers made it the ideal solution for us —
ensuring full GDPR compliance and seamless
data protection.”
- Thomas Wübbelsmann
Head of IT Infrastructure & User Helpdesk
Deutscher Ärzteverlag

--- Page 3 ---
Customer case:
Deutscher Ärzteverlag
In addition, Keepit’s vendor independence
aligned well with Deutscher Ärzteverlag’s strategy
to remain flexible and avoid vendor lock-in.
This independence allows compatibility across
multiple platforms and systems, ensuring the
solution can adapt to future organizational needs.
Security features such as encryption and data
immutability further strengthened Deutscher
Ärzteverlag’s confidence in the platform.
Together, these measures protect data against
About Deutscher Ärzteverlag
unauthorized access and tampering, reinforcing
Founded in 1949, Deutscher Ärzteverlag is one of the
both compliance and operational resilience.
leading medical publishers in the German-speaking
region. The company produces professional policy
Faster recovery and greater peace of mind
magazines, association publications, and a wide range
Since implementing Keepit, Deutscher
of healthcare journals and books. Its strong online
Ärzteverlag has significantly improved its brands complement the print portfolio and connect
ability to recover lost or deleted data. Restores healthcare professionals across multiple channels.
are faster and more reliable, and the IT team
knows the entire Microsoft 365 environment is
continuously protected. The transition has also
reduced administrative overhead, freeing staff
to focus on improving infrastructure rather than
“Keepit makes backup and recovery
troubleshooting recovery issues.
incredibly easy — and that reliability gives
Keepit’s platform also streamlines day-to-day us real confidence.”
operations by making backup and recovery
- Thomas Wübbelsmann
straightforward and intuitive. With fast setup,
Head of IT Infrastructure & User Helpdesk
simple navigation, and seamless integration Deutscher Ärzteverlag
across key applications, the team can keep data
secure, compliant, and easily recoverable — all
with minimal effort.
Wübbelsmann encourages other organizations to
explore Keepit through a demo to see how simple
and secure SaaS data protection can be.
Your data. Here today. Here tomorrow.
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data
in a vendor-independent cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and
future-proof data protection. For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on Linkedin.
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved. Microsoft and Microsoft Entra ID are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.
