Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/case-stories/Keepit-LAUDA-Case-Study-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Customer case:
LAUDA
Keepit supports LAUDA
in securing critical
Entra ID data

--- Page 2 ---
Customer case:
LAUDA
LAUDA, a German temperature equipment and systems company, was in search of a reliable
backup and recovery solution for their entire Microsoft 365 environment. Keepit offered a
comprehensive and user-friendly solution that enabled them to restore critical data quickly,
while ensuring compliance with increasing regulations.
Reliability and compliance as key differentiators Data backup and recovery are integral to
“Keepit impressed us with its ease of use, compliance. European born and operated, Keepit
reliable data backup, and fast recovery options. specializes in backup management and disaster
We also appreciated the independent data recovery and prioritizes compliance by designing
storage outside the Microsoft infrastructure and services to make complying with regulations like
compliance with the European General Data GDPR and NIS2 easier for customers. Keepit runs
Protection Regulation (GDPR),” says Jürgen Irmer, its own data centers in seven regions, ensuring
Manager IT-Infrastructure at LAUDA Dr. R. Wobser data sovereignty.
GmbH & Co KG. LAUDA.
“Keepit impressed us with its ease of use, reliable
data backup, and fast recovery options.”
- Jürgen Irmer, Manager IT-Infrastructure at LAUDA

--- Page 3 ---
Customer case:
LAUDA
Fast and granular recovery combined with a
user-friendly interface
Keepit was able to offer LAUDA with a platform
that included all the features they needed,
including comprehensive daily backups, fast and
granular restore options, a user-friendly interface,
comprehensive search functions, and detailed
audit logs.
The Keepit platform requires no training and About LAUDA:
ensures every step is easy for the end user from LAUDA is the world’s leading provider of precise
setup to continuous monitoring. temperature control solutions and measuring
instruments. Headquartered in Lauda-Königshofen,
Germany, the company has provided temperature
“Keepit ensures that we can quickly equipment and systems that are at the heart of
important applications used in, for example,
restore Entra ID access in the event of an
the electromobility, pharmaceutical/biotech,
emergency.”
semiconductor and medical industries since 1956.
- Jürgen Irmer, Manager IT-Infrastructure at LAUDA
Securing Microsoft Entra ID was paramount Increased efficiency as a result
With Keepit, LAUDA can always securely and The Keepit platform offers IT departments a cost-
reliably access business-critical Microsoft data. efficient way to securely backup and recover
“Losing access to Microsoft Entra ID would data by removing expensive costs associated
paralyze our entire Microsoft 365 environment”, with long-term on-premises or cloud-based
says Jürgen Irmer, and adds: “Keepit ensures that storage. Securing multiple workloads in one
we can quickly restore Entra ID access in the event platform ensures you always have full visibility
of an emergency.”
over your data.
Keepit’s industry-leading coverage of Microsoft “We were able to increase the efficiency of our
Entra ID has the broadest coverage of objects IT department by eliminating additional backup
and policies, including Intune, Bitlocker and LAPS, processes,” says Jürgen Irmer. “Previously, we
enabling companies to feel confident in their had many different products in use, all of which
ability to recover data at any time.
served their purpose, but had to be configured
and monitored in separate consoles. Keepit
“I would recommend that nobody underestimates
offered us a comprehensive and user-friendly
the importance of SaaS backups. Keepit offers
solution.”
a straightforward but powerful solution. Paying
particular attention to the backup capabilities for
Entra ID is paramount as this is often overlooked
but critical to maintaining business operations,”
adds Jürgen Irmer.

--- Page 4 ---
Resilience starts with
intelligent choices
Recover and restore your SaaS data
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data in a vendor-independent
cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and future-proof data protection.
www.keepit.com
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved.
