Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/case-stories/Keepit-Keskisuomalainen-customer-story-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Customer case:
Keskisuomalainen
Largest media
company in Finland
chooses Keepit to
protect cloud data

--- Page 2 ---
Customer case:
Keskisuomalainen
With over 2.2 million weekly readers,
Keskisuomalainen is the largest media
company in Finland. Migrating from on-prem
Exchange to Microsoft 365 was essential to
ensuring quick and efficient recovery of user
data, and Keepit was the obvious choice.
“It’s crucial for us that our
3rd-party backup is a no-brainer M365 data is safeguarded
A risk often overlooked during the cloud at another location than that
migration process is failing to opt for a true third- of Microsoft within the EU.
party backup and recovery provider. Microsoft’s
provides this for us.”
retention periods and recovery functions are
extremely limited, and many backup vendors - Arto Voutilainen
ICT Architect at Keskisuomalainen
in the market use the same data centers as
Microsoft.
It was key for ICT Architect Arto Voutilainen to
have a secure and accessible backup solution at
an off-site location to ensure that company data
is always accessible, even if Microsoft’s servers
go offline.
“If Microsoft’s data center
goes out, then our data
goes out too.”
- Arto Voutilainen
ICT Architect at Keskisuomalainen

--- Page 3 ---
Customer case:
Keskisuomalainen
“We need easy access to share M365 data
with returning users and Microsoft’s built-in
capabilities are simply not sufficient here.”
- Arto Voutilainen
ICT Architect at Keskisuomalainen
Restoring data in a heartbeat
For Voutilainen, backup is an integral part of
migrating the company’s on-prem data to
Microsoft 365 – not only to protect existing and
new data, but also to ensure quick and easy
restore. Keepit provides Keskisuomalainen with
simple and easy restore functions that allow
Voutilainen to find and share user data directly,
reducing operating costs.
Predictable and all-inclusive pricing
According to Voutilainen, other backup vendors
charged additional fees and had numerous About Keskisuomalainen
limitations regarding restores. What sets Keskisuomalainen Oyj is the leading
Keepit apart is that everything is included in the Finnish media company engaged in the
printing and publishing sector with 60+
price. Voutilainen now relies on simple and fast
newspapers read weekly by 2.2 million
recovery features, making restore tasks an easy
people. The company employs 2000
process.
media professionals and owns more than
90 media brands as well as marketing
“With Keepit, data availability is communications, research, printing
and distribution services within its
straightforward: We own and have full,
subsidiaries.
direct access to our data at all times.”
- Arto Voutilainen
ICT Architect at Keskisuomalainen
Keepit has supported Keskisuomalainen with
their journey to the cloud and now ensures
all business-critical data is backed up and
protected with the highest level of security.

--- Page 4 ---
Learn how Keepit can
securely back up and
recover your data
Request demo
Keepit provides next-level SaaS data protection Headquartered in Copenhagen with offices and data
purpose-built for the cloud, by securing data in a centers worldwide, over ten thousand companies
vendor-independent cloud to safeguard essential trust Keepit for its ease of use and effortless backup
business applications, boost cyber resilience and and recovery of cloud data.
future-proof data protection.
HQ - Copenhagen Dallas, Texas London Munich
Denmark United States United Kingdom Germany
Keepit A/S Keepit USA Inc. Keepit Technologies UK, LTD. Keepit Germany GmbH
Per Henrik Lings Allé 4, 7. 3232 McKinney Avenue Suite 820 Warnford Court Maximiliansplatz 22
2100 København, Denmark Dallas TX 75204, USA 29, Throgmorton Street 380639 München
CVR: 30806883 TIN: 85-358 6335 London EC2N 2AT, UK Amtsgericht München,
+45 8987 7792 +1 469-461-4892 Company reg. no.: 13785045 HRB 270094
sales@keepit.com sales@keepit.com sales@keepit.com Geschäftsführer Morten Felsvang
sales@keepit.com
www.keepit.com
© 2024 Keepit. All rights reserved.
