Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/Azure%20AD/Keepit%20for%20EntraID%20(AzureAD)%20Risk%20Assessment%20Form.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
July 2023
Risk assessment form:
Assess your need
for Entra ID backup

--- Page 2 ---
Assess your need for Entra ID
backup
This risk assessment sheet is a risk analysis tool that gives you aquick
view of Entra ID risks and their consequences’ severity (impact).
You use it to allocate ratings for each risk based on two intersecting
factors:
• The likelihood(or probability) of a risk to occur
• The impact(or severity) if a risk occurs
The higher arisk ranks for these two factors, the bigger threat it poses
to your project.
2

--- Page 3 ---
How to use the risk We've compiled a list of security risks (seepages 6-7) that your Entra ID environment may
face without a backup.
assessment sheet?
To assess your risk level, follow these 3 steps for each risk:
1. Determine likelihood (page 4):
Identify the chance of each risk occurring using the likelihood scaleon the next page. Write
your ratingon page 6-7 in the likelihood column.
2. Define impact scale (page 4):
Rank risks based on the impact theywouldhave on your company usingthe impact scale on
the next page.Write your ratings on page 6-7 in theimpact column.
3. Calculate risk rating (page 5):
Assess likelihood and impact to calculate a risk rating for each risk using the equation:
Likelihood x Impact = Risk rating. Ratings rangefrom 1 to 25 (see scale on page 5) and aid in
determining the need for EntraIDbackup. Write your ratingson page 6-7 in the risk rating
column.
A higher number of medium andhigh-level risks indicate a greater necessity
for EntraIDbackup.
3

--- Page 4 ---
Likelihood scale Impact scale
LIKELIHOOD DEFINITIONS IMPACT DEFINITIONS
Negligible:
Very unlikely:
1 This risk will hardly impact your
A very slim chance for this risk to occur.
1
business.
Low:
Not likely:
You can easily handle the consequences
2
Low chances for this risk to occur.
2 of this risk.
Moderate:
Possible:
It will take some time and effort to
3 Fifty-fifty chances for this risk to occur. 3
mitigate the consequences of this risk.
Probable: Significant:
4 Good chances for this risk to occur. This risk could cause long-term
4
consequences that will be hard to
recover from.
Very likely:
Catastrophic
You can bet this risk will occur at some
5
5 The impact of this risk might wreck your
point.
business.
4

--- Page 5 ---
Risk rating (= Likelihood x Impact)
1 – 6 (Low): Low-rating risks most likely will not happen. If they do, they
will not be a threat to your organization.
7 – 12 (Medium): Some medium-rating risks might happen at some point.
You do not need to prioritize them but you should not ignore them
either.
13 – 25 (High): High-rating risks are serious and very likely to happen
threats. They can cause your organization to go off the rails, so you
should keep them in mind when planning your Entra ID security.
5

--- Page 6 ---
Fill in the risk assessment form to assess your need for Entra ID backup
RISK RISK DESCRIPTION LIKELIHOOD IMPACT RISK RATING RESPONSE
Entra ID allows administrators to define and
enforce variousconfigurations, policies, and With a backup of Entra ID organizations have
accesscontrols. Nothavingabackupmeansthe morecontrol over the restoration process, as
Loss of security /
loss ofthese settings,whichcanresult in they can easily recover permanentlydeleted
configuration
inconsistencies, misconfigurations, and unauthorized cloud objects like device configurations,
policies
access. It may take significant time andeffort to recreate security policies, and accesscontrols in a fast
and reapply these configurations, leaving the and efficient way.
environment exposed topotential security risks.
Entra ID provides native features for data recovery, such
as recycle bin and soft delete options. However, these A proper backup of Entra ID ensures more
Limited recovery
options may have limitations, such as time-bound comprehensive recovery options andgreater
options
retention or inability to restore specific attributes or control overthe restoration process.
configurations.
Organizations are often subject tovarious regulatory A backupofEntra ID ensures continuous
requirements, such as GDPR orindustry-specific chain-of-custody and provenance of security
Failuretomeet
regulations. Failure to have a backup of Entra ID can lead policies. This allows organizations to prove
compliance
to non-compliance with data protection and privacy toregulators exactly what policies were
requirements
regulations, resulting in potential legal issues, financial inplace at any time and document
penalties, and reputational damage. changesand deviations, if any
6

--- Page 7 ---
Fill in the risk assessment form to assess your need for Entra ID backup
RISK RISK DESCRIPTION LIKELIHOOD IMPACT RISK RATING RESPONSE
Entra ID storessecuritypolicies, application settings,and
other cloud-only configurations. If you have a backup before the incident,
Ifthisdataislost due toaccidentaldeletion, you can use it toeasily recover your lost
Data loss
malicious activity,or systemfailure,itcanleadto severe data and bring itback into your Entra
consequences, including user accessissues, operational IDenvironment rightaway.
disruptions, andcompliance violations.
Restoring security policies and
Without abackup, recoveringsecurityanddevice policies
User configurations manually can result in
can be a difficult and time-consuming task. This process
productivity significant downtime and decreased
may restrict activity or even prevent users from logging in
impact productivity for users who are unable to
to apps.
access the resources they need.
No backup can prevent Microsoft from
Microsoft IfEntra ID experiencesaprolongedoutageor
having a system outage, that’s simply a risk
system catastrophicfailure, organizations without a backupwill
all organizations face. However, if you have
outages havelimitedoptions for recovery, leading to extended
a backup,you can use itto recover your
periods of system unavailability, and business disruption.
dataonce the service outage is resolved.
7

--- Page 8 ---
Why Keepit is the best backup &
recovery for Entra ID
• Broadest coverage on the market
• Back up cloud objects not covered by the Recycle Bin
• Extend the retention and the ability to recover Entra ID objects
• Ability to selectively roll back changes
• Preserve important records for compliance purposes
• Recover lost data in disaster scenarios
• Increase IT efficiency
Read more about Keepit's Entra ID backup here

--- Page 9 ---
Leading protection
Coverage:
Users Yes No Yes Yes Yes
Azure AD (Entra ID)
Groups Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
Standard
Free Admin Units Yes No No No No
Roles Yes Yes No No No
Audit logs Yes No Yes* No Yes
Azure AD (Entra ID)
Sign-in logs Yes No No No Yes
Advanced
CA policies Yes Yes No No No
App registrations Yes No Yes Yes Yes
Service principals/Enterprise
Yes Yes Yes Yes No
apps
Intune device compliance
Yes No No No No
policies
Intune device configuration
Yes No No No No
profiles
BitLocker recovery keys Yes No No No No
Contacts Coming soon Yes No No No
MFA settings No Yes No No No
*Audit logs available with an additional different product

--- Page 10 ---
CUSTOMER TESTIMONIAL
Our normal traditional backups for Azure
Directory aren’t necessarily covered by
any Azure AD backup...
Now that we have Keepit, we are covered.
No data loss, no user downtime. If we
needed to, we could get back up and
running at a very short period of time
Ken Schirrmacher,
Chief Technology Officer

--- Page 11 ---
Entra ID (Azure AD) and M365 are better together —
Get complete protection for your entire Microsoft cloud with Keepit
+

--- Page 12 ---
Get Entra ID (Azure AD) backup
for free today.
Sign up here.
