Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/case-stories/Keepit-Swisscontact-Use-Case-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Customer case
Swisscontact
chooses Keepit to
safeguard critical data

--- Page 2 ---
Customer case:
Swisscontact
Swisscontact, a leading international development organization that promotes economic, social,
and environmental development, chose Keepit as a backup and recovery partner to secure its
business-critical data, ensure data integrity and remain compliant. Keepit’s data centers in
Switzerland ensure that Swisscontact can trust their processes align with legal requirements.
Stringent data protection requirements The company’s projects often involve sensitive
Swisscontact operates in multiple regions with data, including personal information and financial
varying regulatory requirements. Microsoft records, which means stringent data protection
365 serves as the backbone for the company’s measures are paramount. Swisscontact required
infrastructure, enabling it to operate efficiently a solution that ensured the confidentiality,
and focus on their mission of fostering sustainable integrity, and availability of their Microsoft 365
development. Keepit provides extensive data. Compliance with regulations such as GDPR,
coverage for all key workloads in Microsoft 365, as well as safeguarding against data incidents
including Exchange Online, OneDrive, SharePoint and cyber threats, were other important criteria
and Teams. considered during the procurement process.
“Swisscontact is committed to transparency
and accountability. This means we must always
ensure data integrity and security.”
- Richard Schweizer,
Senior ICT Manager at Swisscontact

--- Page 3 ---
Customer case:
Swisscontact
“Our primary goal was to find a service that
could ensure the safety and integrity of our data,
especially given the increasing complexity of
our IT environment and the critical nature of our
operations,” explains Richard Schweizer, Senior
ICT Manager at Swisscontact.
Swiss data centers help to ensure data
sovereignty
By storing data locally within Switzerland, Keepit
ensures compliance with Swiss data protection About Swisscontact
laws and regulations. This is crucial for Swisscon- Swisscontact is an independent, nonprofit
tact, as it guarantees that its data management development organization established in 1959 by
representatives of the Swiss private sector and civil
practices align with all legal requirements.
society. Its work focuses on private sector-led,
Keepit provides vendor-independent backup and sustainable economic development and improved
quality of life for all in developing and emerging
recovery, storing customer data in seven different
countries. A key focus is to strengthen the skills
data center regions across the globe. Customer
of individuals and foster the competitiveness of
data is always available, secure and compliant. businesses.
Ease of use and favorable cost
As a nongovernmental organization with limited
financial resources, Swisscontact benefited from “Keepit’s intuitive interface has made it
Keepit’s per-seat pricing structure. The flat rate easier for our team to manage backups and
includes unlimited data storage, and there are no recoveries efficiently.”
additional fees for ingress, egress or data transfer.
- Richard Schweizer,
“Keepit provided their backup solution at a very
Senior ICT Manager at Swisscontact
favorable rate, enabling us to implement robust
data protection measures without straining our
budget,” adds Richard Schweizer, Senior ICT
Manager at Swisscontact. The company also
appreciated the user-friendly interface and ease
of recovery.
Your data. Here today. Here tomorrow.
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data
in a vendor-independent cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and
future-proof data protection. For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on Linkedin.
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved. Microsoft and Microsoft Entra ID are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.
