Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/case-stories/Keepit-Parramatta-customercase-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Customer case
Keepit and the City of Parramatta:
Implementing
secure SaaS backup

--- Page 2 ---
Customer case:
City of Parramatta
The City of Parramatta, a city in Greater Western Sydney, Australia, needed to find a secure
SaaS backup solution during its transition to Microsoft 365. Keepit’s solution, which supports
backup for Exchange, Teams, OneDrive, SharePoint, and Power BI, met the council’s regulatory
requirements for data sovereignty and cybersecurity certifications. The simplicity and reliability
of Keepit’s solution has resulted in a reduced workload and improved data protection for the city.
True SaaS backup “During our transition, we highlighted the
The City of Parramatta started migrating from its confidentiality, integrity and availability of our
on-premises infrastructure to Microsoft 365 in data. Keepit’s solution is appealing to us as
late 2018, which was subsequently accelerated it’s true SaaS backup — no data from a cloud
by the COVID-19 pandemic. The Council, with provider needs to traverse our network and data
1,500 employees and 25 TB of data, needed a is stored in an independent cloud,” says Les
secure, immutable backup solution as the city’s Pall, ICT Technical Operations Manager, City of
legacy backup system was no longer sufficient Parramatta.
for the new cloud-based environment being
implemented. Keepit was recommended to the
Council through their long-standing partner,
Seccom Global.
“A backup and recovery solution must be simple,
easy to use and reliable. Keepit allows us to
quickly recover what we need, and we have
confidence in the solution.”
- Les Pall,
ICT Technical Operations Manager, City of Parramatta

--- Page 3 ---
Customer case:
City of Parramatta
Independent and immutable data storage
The city needs fool-proof assurance that its
data protection is up to par as multiple national
and state oversight agencies conduct regular
audits on data protection and cybersecurity
practices. “Using immutable storage is important.
Separating work data from our long-term data
storage is also crucial in protecting ourselves
against ransomware and other cyberthreats,”
adds Les.
Keepit’s solution meets the highest security
About the City of Parramatta
standards with ISO 27001 certification across all
The City of Parramatta, also known as Parramatta
locations and annual ISAE 3402-II certification.
Council, is a local government area located in Sydney,
Australia. The City of Parramatta has an estimated
Data sovereignty as a requirement
population of 250,000 people, and it houses the
On top of security requirements, compliance
Parramatta central business district which is one of the
with regulations was a key factor for the City of key suburban employment destinations for the region
Parramatta when choosing a data protection of Greater Western Sydney.
partner. The Keepit platform simplifies
About Seccom Global
compliance by offering SaaS data protection
Seccom Global is an Australian-based Managed
aligned with key regulations such as NIS2, NIST,
Security Services Provider (MSSP) that was founded
and GDPR. Keepit’s seven data center regions
in 2003. They specialize in providing comprehensive
across the globe ensure customers can rely on IT security solutions, including cybersecurity
their data being stored locally. consultancy, managed security services, and network
security solutions.
Simple, cost-effective data protection
Choosing Keepit has resulted in a reduced
workload for the Council, helping them to
“We require that data is stored in Australia.
manage and secure all Microsoft 365 data in
That’s the first requirement for any
a cloud-native data protection platform. The
governmental organization.”
platform’s intuitive interface requires little to no
training, allowing customers to locate, preview, - Les Pall,
and restore data with just a few clicks. ICT Technical Operations Manager, City of Parramatta
Your data. Here today. Here tomorrow.
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data
in a vendor-independent cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and
future-proof data protection. For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on Linkedin.
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved. Microsoft and Microsoft Entra ID are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.
