Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/case-stories/Keepit-National-Gallery-customer-case-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Customer case
The National Gallery
chooses Keepit after a
diligent tender process

--- Page 2 ---
Customer case:
The National Gallery
The National Gallery in London is one of the biggest art museums in the world with millions of
yearly visitors. With the IT team reliant on Microsoft 365, a decision was made to implement a
cloud-based backup system. After running a diligent tender process, The National Gallery chose
Keepit to protect its M365 data.
UK Data Centers: the difference team, Keepit’s ease-of-use, the quick initial
As a publicly owned museum and governmental setup, and the competitive price proved a winning
organization, The National Gallery needs to combination.
remain compliant when it comes to M365 data.
With Keepit, The National Gallery can store all “We didn’t want to invest time, money,
M365 data within the UK at two separate data and effort into an on-premise solution.
centers. As Microsoft 365 runs in the cloud, we
opted for a cloud-based data protection
Investing in cloud backup made simple
provider.”
Protecting your valuable data shouldn´t be an
afterthought, but nor should it break the bank. - James Mitchell
Keepit offers class-leading performance at Infrastructure Manager
The National Gallery
flexible price points. For James Mitchell and his
“During our tender process, it was evident that
Keepit offered the best price point and simplest
solution – accessing your backup is fast and
easy, just the way it should be.”
- James Mitchell
Infrastructure Manager
The National Gallery

--- Page 3 ---
Customer case:
The National Gallery
“As a Keepit customer, I got an in-depth
presentation of the inner workings of the
solution courtesy of the CTO – something
I highly value as an IT professional.”
- James Mitchell
Infrastructure Manager
The National Gallery
Reliable support that exceeds expectations
About The National Gallery
Mr. Mitchell was also impressed by the knowledge
The National Gallery is one of the most visited art
of Keepit’s staff as well as the dedication of the
museums in the world. It houses the UK’s national
team to go above and beyond the call of duty.
collection of paintings from the 13th to the 19th
centuries. It is open 361 days a year and entrance is
free of charge. The Gallery’s aim is to enable access to
its collection for the education and enjoyment of the
widest possible public – now and in the future.
Your data. Here today. Here tomorrow.
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data
in a vendor-independent cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and
future-proof data protection. For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on LinkedIn.
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved. Microsoft and Microsoft Entra ID are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.
