Source: https://www.keepit.com/Assets/Pdf/Keepit_Lasselsberger_Customer_Case.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Customer Story: Lasselsberger
Lasselsberger Chooses Keepit provides Lasselsberger with scalable and
automated backup of all Microsoft 365 data. Before
Keepit for Top Tier Data migrating to the cloud, enterprise data was stored locally
on 1,000+ computers and servers across locations posing
Protection. a major risk of data loss. A security breach on Microsoft’s
cloud data would result in costly downtime, affecting
Lasselsberger’s supply chain and daily global operations.
Company
The Lasselsberger Group is a Eurasian producer of raw
materials, building materials and ceramic tiles based
in Pöchlarn, Austria. Market leadership in many areas
combined with a production tradition over many decades
as well as raw material reserves secured in the long term
ensures the successful growth of Lasselsberger Group.
The Keepit platform works perfectly
and is the most comprehensive
backup and recovery solution in the
market.
Mario Hinterndorfer
Head of Group IT Infrastructure, Lasselsberger
Page 1

--- Page 2 ---
Customer Story: Lasselsberger
Not only does Keepit Dedicated Data Protection Cloud
With Keepit, Lasselsberger’s M365 data is now stored
provide us with a strong in a dedicated private cloud at a separate location
independent of Microsoft’s public cloud. Head of Group
and reliable backup, we IT Infrastructure Mario Hinterndorfer now enjoys peace-
of-mind with an automatic backup in place, ensuring the
also get instant recovery business is always running.
and can share data across With Keepit, we no longer have to do
all the manual updating of backup
the company in less than a
software.
minute.
Mario Hinterndorfer
Mario Hinterndorfer
Head of Group IT Infrastructure
Fast Recovery Saves Admin Time
Lasselsberger
Now, less infrastructure specialists are required to
administer all M365 data, as Keepit’s finding and
recovery features make restore tasks super easy and fast.
Retrieving data from past users was a true administrative
nightmare before Keepit cloud backup; sharing data
across Lasselsberger’s subsidiaries could take hours due
to unstable internet connections. With Keepit’s intuitive UI
and granular recovery features, finding and sharing data
requires only minimal administrative effort.
Sharing data only takes around 30
seconds. The backup solution provides
great functions and flexibility, making
our tasks simple and efficient.
Mario Hinterndorfer
Recovery is easy and agile with Keepit: users receive a
secure link with a custom expiration date, allowing them
to choose the exact data they need to restore. Instant
recovery is a key value to Lasselsberger’s infrastructure
specialists who anticipate a major spike in Microsoft
Teams and OneDrive users due to increased remote work
during Covid-19.
Page 2

--- Page 3 ---
Customer Story: Lasselsberger
Keepit has the best price- Best Price-Performance Ratio
Cloud backup turned out to be the most cost-effective
performance ratio for solution for Lasselsberger. Compared to other vendors on
the market, Keepit’s price offering includes 1TB storage
a backup and recovery per user and up to lifetime-long retention period. Keepit’s
all-inclusive pricing means no hidden costs in terms of
solution compared to other infrastructure, storage or recovery.
vendors in the market Keepit provides an indispensable layer of security,
guaranteeing a stable, centralized backup that adapts to
like Veeam, AvePoint and Lasselsberger’s growing number of users. Lasselsberger
has now been running backup and recovery with Keepit
Barracuda. for 2 years.
Mario Hinterndorfer
Head of Group IT Infrastructure The Lasselsberger Group is a Eurasian producer of raw materials,
Lasselsberger building materials and ceramic tiles based in Pöchlarn, Austria. Market
leadership in many areas combined with a production tradition over
many decades as well as raw material reserves secured in the long term
ensures the successful growth of the whole Lasselsberger Group.
Get in touch with Keepit:
Reach out for a talk and get a free 30-day trial.
+45 8987 7792
sales@keepit.com
Page 3
