Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/case-stories/Keepit-Ludwigfreytag-Use-Case-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Customer case
Keepit provides
immutable backup for
Ludwig Freytag

--- Page 2 ---
Customer case:
Ludwig Freytag
Immutable backups stored in European data centers was a key factor to Germany-based Ludwig
Freytag when choosing a data protection partner. The construction company’s IT department
supports 1,600 users across more than 30 locations, using over 500 applications. Keepit was able
to provide a reliable, independent and audit-proof backup solution for its Microsoft 365 data.
Compliance at the forefront Independence from cloud providers
Ludwig Freytag began its search for an audit- For Ludwig Freytag, independence from
proof, GDPR-compliant backup solution by Microsoft was another crucial factor when
researching European SaaS backup providers. searching for a backup partner for its increasing
After receiving a recommendation, the company Teams and SharePoint data. Keepit’s vendor-
landed on Keepit’s solution. With increasing independent, cloud-native solution allows
regulations putting pressure on companies to companies to store data completely separate
always have access to critical data — and the from their SaaS vendor. With Keepit, customers
ability to demonstrate this access — Keepit’s can secure data in the data center region of their
backup solution provides companies with needed choosing, ensuring data sovereignty. “Storing
capabilities such as GDPR-archiving to make data in European data centers was a central
compliance easier. “As a construction company criterion to meet GDPR requirements and build
with public clients, we are subject to strict data trust with our internal data protection officers,”
protection and retention requirements,” explains says Stefan.
Stefan Gerdes, Team Leader IT Operations &
Infrastructure at Ludwig Freytag.
“We wanted a solution that operates
independently of the Microsoft ecosystem,
offers easy recovery options, and meets data
protection and compliance requirements.”
- Stefan Gerdes
Team Leader, IT Operations & Infrastructure at Ludwig Freytag

--- Page 3 ---
Customer case:
Ludwig Freytag
Encrypted and immutable backup
Keepit’s solution keeps backed up data
immutable — data cannot be deleted or altered in
any way. Data is AES-256 encrypted to ensure the
highest level of security. With strict data retention
requirements, Ludwig Freytag could rest easy as
Keepit offers unlimited storage and retention,
without hidden costs. With data loss incidents on
the rise, securing critical data to ensure business
continuity has become another important
About Ludwig Freytag
selection criterion for the company.
Since 1891, family-owned Ludwig Freytag has
utilized the expertise of four generations to become
“Encryption and data immutability are
a leader in the German construction industry. The
essential for our compliance requirements company specializes in planning, maintenance,
and protect us from ransomware attacks.” and supervision for structural, industrial, and
civil engineering construction of all types and
- Stefan Gerdes, sizes. With 1,900 qualified employees and the full
Team Leader, IT Operations & Infrastructure versatility of a finely synchronized group of fourteen
Ludwig-Freytag independent, individual medium-sized companies,
optimal solutions for every task in the wide field of
construction are guaranteed.
Time and cost savings
“Before Keepit, recovering individual Microsoft
365 items was time-consuming and unreliable.
Today, we can restore data within minutes with
“The solution is intuitive, reliable, and
significantly less effort from IT support,” notes
meets the highest data protection
Stefan.
requirements. Highly recommended
The Keepit platform helps IT departments save for companies with Microsoft 365 and
time and money by automating backups and compliance requirements.”
lessening administrative work. Priced per seat, the
- Stefan Gerdes,
Keepit solution is cost-effective and predictable
Team Leader, IT Operations & Infrastructure
to budget. With a user-friendly interface, IT Ludwig-Freytag
departments don’t need to spend costly hours
onboarding the solution — setting up the system
is quick and easy.
Your data. Here today. Here tomorrow.
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data
in a vendor-independent cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and
future-proof data protection. For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on Linkedin.
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved. Microsoft and Microsoft Entra ID are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.
