Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/EN/Keepit-Foundry-Can-data-protection-keep-pace-with-the-shifting-landscape-Whitepaper.pdf?utm_source=PR&utm_medium=pressrelease&utm_campaign=foundrywhitepaper

--- Page 1 ---
SPONSORED CONTENT | WHITE PAPER
Can data protection
Market
Pulse
keep pace with the
shifting landscape?
Enterprise disaster recovery strategies crafted for
on-premises IT infrastructure are struggling to keep up
with growing reliance on cloud applications and the rollout
of generative artificial intelligence (genAI) applications.
SPONSORED BY

--- Page 2 ---
I n a recent Foundry survey of 107 IT decision-makers at companies with
Market
Pulse more than 1,000 global employees, a large majority of the participating
organizations indicated that they believe that their financial systems are
relatively well covered by data protection strategies but that other key
transactional systems and custom applications are less protected.
Increasingly, there is a critical systems are covered by those
security component to backup and strategies, with many others hoping
recovery, along with a compliance to catch up this year. However, critical
component, that is becoming more transaction-based systems, custom
important with regulatory scrutiny applications, and collaboration and
of disaster recovery preparedness, productivity tools remain behind
rapid implementation of AI and (see Figure 1).
machine learning (ML), and the move
of data and processes to the cloud. One decision-maker participating
in a recent roundtable hosted by
Of those surveyed, 70% said their Keepit lamented that many of today’s
financial applications — whether challenges were largely sorted out
software as a service (SaaS) or on- 10 to 15 years ago, but “Then we
site — are incorporated within data went to cloud, and it seems like a
protection strategies and 26% said lot of lessons around information
that that will happen in 2024. governance, managing data, and
what you do with data got forgotten,
Half said their e-commerce and and now we’re starting all over again.”
human resources management
70%
of those surveyed said their financial
applications are incorporated within
data protection strategies.
CSO | Keepit | Can data protection keep pace with the shifting landscape? 2

--- Page 3 ---
Market
Pulse
Figure 1 | Which SaaS or enterprise applications do you currently use in
or plan to incorporate into your data protection strategy in 2024?
n Currently incorporated | n Planned for 2024 | n No plans
Financial systems
70% 26% 4%
E-commerce platforms
50% 36% 14%
HR management systems
50% 41% 9%
CRM
48% 39% 13%
ERP
42% 45% 13%
Custom applications specific to your industry
32% 38% 30%
Collaboration and productivity tools
26% 47% 27%
SOURCE: FOUNDRY
Most respondents recognize the
Strategic gaps
vulnerabilities in their current data
protection strategies. They expect
Just half of those surveyed have
to be able to extend those strategies
brought cloud-stored data of SaaS
to cover most applications in the
under their disaster recovery plans,
coming year. However, for some,
and another 40% said they are
those aspirations are likely to be
planning to do so.
CSO | Keepit | Can data protection keep pace with the shifting landscape? 3

--- Page 4 ---
hampered by conflicting demands
Market Compliance and future-
Pulse for IT resources, organizational proofing challenges
resistance to change, and the need to
implement new initiatives — such as
Data protection is the main challenge
governance of the data used by large
or need to address in 2024, according
language models (LLMs).
to 73% of the survey respondents
(see Figure 2). Asked to select all that
Virtually all the respondents are
apply from a list of common issues,
prioritizing AI data protection. Just
many also chose data governance
over half have already determined
(53%), data compliance (49%), and
how to move forward, with the rest
enterprise backup and recovery (45%).
saying that it is currently under
consideration. A significant majority
Regulatory agencies, such as the
indicated that their current state of
U.S. Securities and Exchange
data protection is a limiting factor for
Commission (SEC), have responded
exploring or expanding use cases for
with mandates for managing
genAI technologies.
cyberrisks, requirements for
Figure 2 | Challenges or needs to address in data protection strategy for 2024
73% 53% 49% 45%
Data protection Data governance Data compliance Enterprise backup
and recovery
SOURCE: FOUNDRY
CSO | Keepit | Can data protection keep pace with the shifting landscape? 4

--- Page 5 ---
Market
Pulse
cybersecurity resilience, and gaps that occur due to the use
new reporting obligations. In the of disparate solutions. Meanwhile,
EU, financial services companies cybersecurity risks, most notably
face a January 2025 deadline ransomware assaults, where
for compliance with the Digital organized crime and state-
Operational Resiliency Act (DORA) sponsored gangs have raised the
and uncertainty about how member ante considerably, are continuing
nations will implement the Network relatively unabated.
and Information Security 2 directive,
which aims to modernize and boost One roundtable participant said his
cybersecurity throughout the region. organization had experienced five
major cyberattacks over the course
What makes this particularly of the previous year, resulting in
challenging, according to one-on- shutdowns of payment processing,
one chief information security officer health insurance, and a joint venture.
(CISO) interviews commissioned “We’re in the process right now of
by Keepit, is the difficulty of managing redrafting our whole cyberresponse
multiple security vendors and the plan based on our learnings,” he said.
CSO | Keepit | Can data protection keep pace with the shifting landscape? 5

--- Page 6 ---
Further complicating such a
Market Staying on course against
Pulse the headwinds framework is the reality that SaaS
and cloud vendors employ a shared-
responsibility model that often places
The survey and interviews with
the onus on customers to ensure
decision-makers indicate a
that data is safe. IT departments,
strong interest in a defensible
therefore, cannot rely solely on their
security strategy that designs,
cloud vendors to preserve data and
builds, operates, and defends an
thus need to adhere to the legacy
infrastructure while continuously
3-2-1 backup rule, which requires
applying both threat modeling
multiple copies of backup data
and analysis.
on many different devices and in
separate locations.
That requires a common data
governance framework across the
True backup protection requires
organization and all IT assets, but
a logical infrastructure separate
achieving that is not a simple matter.
from the primary data, but many
For example, less than one-third of
cloud-based services back up
the survey respondents said their
customer data to the same cloud
data protection vendors cover all or
in which production data is held,
most of their applications and just
creating potential risk if the vendor
58% of applications, on average,
is attacked. u
are protected.
Learn how to protect all your key SaaS applications with
Keepit in a single vendor-independent platform.
© 2024 IDG Communications, Inc.
SPONSORED BY
