Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/case-stories/keepit_mumsinneed_case_study.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Customer case:
Mums In Need
Mums In Need secures
sensitive Google Workspace
data with Keepit

--- Page 2 ---
Customer case:
Mums In Need
Simplicity, peace of mind and compliance were top of mind for Mums In Need when choosing
a backup and recovery provider. As a small organization without a specialized IT staff, Keepit’s
solution was the perfect choice for securing sensitive data in Google Workspace.
A charity looking to secure its Google As Laura Riley, CEO at Mums In Need, laid out their
Workspace data requirements for data protection, it became clear
Mums In Need is on a mission to help women that a cloud-based backup solution was essential.
rebuild their lives after experiencing domestic The entire organization stores its data in the cloud,
abuse. This Sheffield-based charity supports using Google Workspace with their volunteers,
mothers affected by emotional abuse and post- trustees, ambassadors and patrons who log into
separation abuse in South Yorkshire and the the platform from various locations across the
surrounding area. United Kingdom.
Keepit is a set-and-forget solution, and
everything is available from one screen - so we
can check how much data is being backed up and
ensure everything is running smoothly.”
- Laura Riley, CEO at Mums In Need

--- Page 3 ---
Customer case:
Mums In Need
Keepit’s “set-and-forget” solution was the right fit
Mums In Need looked for a solution that would fulfill the
requirements of a small organization without specialized
IT staff – Keepit was the right fit. “We looked for a service
that could protect cloud data. After reviewing players
in that market, we settled on Keepit because it met our
requirements most closely. It’s a backup service that
protects our cloud data and makes it easy for us to restore it,
should we need to,” says Laura Riley.
About Mums In Need:
Sensitive data requires backup you can trust Mums In Need (MIN) is a Sheffield-based
A charity such as Mums In Need handles sensitive data registered charity working to confront
coercive control. They support mothers
related to personal matters. It was vital for the organization
in Sheffield and the wider South Yorkshire
to have full control over the data they process and store.
area who have left an abusive relationship
and are looking for help and guidance to
rebuild their lives.
“Data is the heart of our organization. We must
Mums In Need provides practical guidance
retain the trust of the women using our service and
and emotional support so their clients can
Keepit is critical to this process.”
gain an understanding of exactly what
they can do to help their families. Mums In
- Laura Riley, CEO at Mums In Need
Need empower women with the skills and
confidence to move forward with their
lives, and is working towards being a charity
Independent data centers to ensure compliance
with national reach in the UK.
When looking at criteria for a backup and recovery service,
the fact that Keepit owns and operates its own data
centers was a clear advantage. Keepit has data centers in
seven regions to ensure that customers comply with local
regulations.
“We are confident that our data is 100% protected
and compliant.”
- Laura Riley, CEO at Mums In Need

--- Page 4 ---
Keepit future proof
Take the next step toward protecting your SaaS data
Request demo
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection Headquartered in Copenhagen with offices and data
platform purpose-built for the cloud, by securing centers worldwide, over ten thousand companies
data in a vendor-independent cloud to safeguard trust Keepit for its ease of use and effortless backup
essential business applications, boost cyber and recovery of cloud data.
resilience and future-proof data protection.
HQ - Copenhagen Dallas, Texas London Munich
Denmark United States United Kingdom Germany
Keepit A/S Keepit USA Inc. Keepit Technologies UK, LTD. Keepit Germany GmbH
Per Henrik Lings Allé 4, 7. 3232 McKinney Avenue Suite 820 Warnford Court Maximiliansplatz 22
2100 København, Denmark Dallas TX 75204, USA 29, Throgmorton Street D-80333 München
CVR: 30806883 TIN: 85-358 6335 London EC2N 2AT, UK Amtsgericht München
+45 8987 7792 +1 469-461-4892 Company reg. no.: 13785045 HRB 270094
sales@keepit.com sales@keepit.com sales@keepit.com Geschäftsführer Morten Felsvang
sales@keepit.com
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved. www.keepit.com
