Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/case-stories/Keepit-Pacific-National-customer-case-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Customer case:
Pacific National
Pacific National gains peace
of mind for the long haul with
Keepit’s cloud backup solution

--- Page 2 ---
Customer case:
Pacific National
Australia’s largest private rail freight company, Pacific National, chose Keepit to protect their
business-critical cloud data. In an initiative to ensure that the organization has the most secure
data backup and recovery solution in place, the organization chose Keepit due to its unparalleled
independent cloud data coverage (especially the critical access to Microsoft Entra ID) – and the
promise that the business can always access their data – even in the event of a cyberattack.
Managing the risk of data loss was critical Essentially, even if Microsoft is having service
Prior to working with Keepit, Pacific National problems, Pacific National would still be able
carried out a series of risk assessments and to reliably access their data since all backups
determined that the native restore tools from are separate from Microsoft’s native backup
Microsoft were not as efficient or user-friendly solution. With Keepit, their organization can now
when compared to what Keepit could offer. With reliably back up Microsoft 365, Microsoft Entra ID,
the conclusion that a major Microsoft 365 cyber Microsoft DevOps, and Microsoft Dynamics 365 –
incident could lead to mass data loss for their and rest assured that their data will be available and
organization, Pacific National turned to Keepit recoverable even in the event of an unexpected
for its independent, third-party backup and cyber event or accidental data deletion.
recovery solution.
“The native restore tools from Microsoft are not as
efficient or user-friendly as Keepit’s backup and
recovery. We do not want to risk data loss in the
event of a major Microsoft 365 incident. Keepit’s
tools save my engineer’s significant time”
- Wilbur Palijo
IT Infrastructure Manager
Pacific National

--- Page 3 ---
Customer case:
Pacific National
A heavy reliance on access to Microsoft Entra ID
Pacific National shares that they, like many organizations,
are immensely dependent on access to Microsoft Entra ID.
Loss of access would impact business operations, disrupt
the nations supply chain, and potentially result in financial
losses. Causing a negative domino effect across other
cloud applications, Pacific National would face significant
downtime if access to Microsoft Entra ID were blocked.
The organization chose Keepit for Entra ID due to its ability About Pacific National:
to mitigate accidental or malicious object deletions. The As Australia’s largest private rail freight
solution provides historical records of configuration and company, Pacific National is integral in
keeping Australia’s economy moving. With
policy changes. Additionally, an impressive list is protected
a rich history dating back to 1855, they
in the Entra ID back up, including: users, devices, groups,
are incredibly proud of their heritage and
objects, app registrations, service principals, conditional the essential role they continue to play in
access policies, and compliance policies. supporting Australia’s supply chain.
The company is built on solid foundations
Entra ID holds the key to the organization’s business critical
with a team of dedicated people, guided by
data; with Keepit for Entra ID in place, Pacific National can
common values, working together as one.
rest assured that this data is fully secure and recoverable. They care about each other and the work
they do. Because of this, ‘we care more’ is
the Pacific National core philosophy.
“Fortunately, we have not lost access to Entra ID,
and we hope that we never do, as the consequences
would be catastrophic. Backing up our data with
Keepit for Entra ID ensures that we never lose
access to this business-critical data – which
provides our organization with peace of mind.”
- Tony Azzi “Keepit is a reliable, robust,
Senior Infrastructure Engineer and a mature backup
Pacific National
solution. It allows for
granular recovery of Entra
‘Keepit ticks all the boxes’
ID, Microsoft 365, and other
Pacific National evaluated various SaaS backup solutions
cloud workloads with ease.”
and ultimately chose Keepit due to a range of benefits and
features provided by the solution. The private rail freight
company cites ease of use, product maturity, and backup - Tony Azzi
frequency as their top reasons for choosing the solution. Senior Infrastructure Engineer
Pacific National
A broad array of global backup data centers, dedicated
technical support, and cost-effectiveness were also
key factors in selecting Keepit. With seamless product
maintenance, the solution proved to be a tool that could
deliver the organization’s needs while being extremely user-
friendly and taking up minimal time resources for the team.

--- Page 4 ---
Keepit future proof
Take the next step toward protecting your SaaS data
Request demo
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection Headquartered in Copenhagen with offices and data
platform purpose-built for the cloud, by securing centers worldwide, over ten thousand companies
data in a vendor-independent cloud to safeguard trust Keepit for its ease of use and effortless backup
essential business applications, boost cyber and recovery of cloud data.
resilience and future-proof data protection.
HQ - Copenhagen Dallas, Texas London Munich
Denmark United States United Kingdom Germany
Keepit A/S Keepit USA Inc. Keepit Technologies UK, LTD. Keepit Germany GmbH
Per Henrik Lings Allé 4, 7. 3232 McKinney Avenue Suite 820 Warnford Court Maximiliansplatz 22
2100 København, Denmark Dallas TX 75204, USA 29, Throgmorton Street D-80333 München
CVR: 30806883 TIN: 85-358 6335 London EC2N 2AT, UK Amtsgericht München
+45 8987 7792 +1 469-461-4892 Company reg. no.: 13785045 HRB 270094
sales@keepit.com sales@keepit.com sales@keepit.com Geschäftsführer Morten Felsvang
sales@keepit.com
© 2024 Keepit. All rights reserved. www.keepit.com
