Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/product-sheets/Keepit-Docusign-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Keepit Backup and
Recovery for Docusign
Never lose a signed deal—keep contracts safe and recoverable at all times
Contracts and agreements are fundamental to business operations, legal compliance, and
financial transactions. Docusign offers limited retention and recovery capabilities. Losing or
corrupting this data can lead to legal liabilities, financial losses, and operational disruptions.
Awarded for its ease of use, Keepit ensures that Docusign data and settings are securely
backed up and can be recovered swiftly in case of accidental loss or malicious attacks. Keepit
effectively minimizes the impact of data loss and the burden of recovery on your teams.
Time-saving usability Easily identify and Assured data integrity
Easy to implement and intuitive, preview records With Keepit, you’re certain that your
Keepit requires minimal expertise to Quickly identify the correct data backups are immutable — they can’t
use — while delivering confidence or settings to recover with smart be modified or deleted. Stored in
in your ability to swiftly recover your search and previewer for data, our vendor-independent cloud, your
files and configurations whenever metadata, files, and attachments. data remains accessible at all times.
you need them.
THE RISK PROVEN BENEFIT
Docusign users face meaningful risk if not using external Keepit customers were able to realize a 163% return
backup and robust security practices, and past breaches on investment when deploying the Keepit solution.
show how even partial data exposure can lead to cascad- Payback was achieved in under 6 months.
ing security and reputational consequences.
Source: “Forrester TEI Report 2024”
Source: “DocuSign Confirms Hack And The Stolen Data Could Put You At Risk” - Forbes
“Not only does Keepit provide us with a strong and
reliable backup, we also get instant recovery and can
share data across the company in less than a minute”
Mario Hinterndorfer – Head of Group IT
Infrastructure, Lasselsberger

--- Page 2 ---
Retain access to all your Docusign documents and settings with Keepit
KEY CAPABILITIES
Automated backups Instant search and preview Highest security
Customize and automate your Easily find what you need with Keepit’s Stored in our vendor-independent
backups so your files and comprehensive search. Use filters to cloud and immutable by design,
configurations remain preserved and identify data and the preview function Keepit offers industry-leading
recoverable whenever you need them. to review it before restoring. security, keeping your backups safe.
Outstanding ease-of-use Unlimited retention Compliance and reporting
Built to protect SaaS applications, Customize retention for up to 99 Easily document and prove
Keepit is quick to implement and years with no extra costs. compliance with backup requirements
intuitive to use. and data protection efforts.
WHAT WE COVER
Accounts* Global users Signing groups Find the complete
coverage here.
Envelopes* Account users Permission profiles
Templates** User groups
*Backup only
**Restore of full template
Find out how simple and
easy it is to use Keepit
Book a demo
Your data. Here today. Here tomorrow.
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data
in a vendor-independent cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and
future-proof data protection. For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on Linkedin.
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved. Microsoft and Microsoft Entra ID are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.
