Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/case-stories/Keepit-Innovision-anonymous-casestudy-EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Case study:
Cyber resilience
Keepit enables
rapid recovery
from cyberattack

--- Page 2 ---
Case study:
Cyber resilience
Keepit Elite partner INNOVISION shares how one of their customers bounced back quickly from a
cyberattack – all due to Keepit’s seamless recovery process. The case details how the customer
avoided potentially disastrous results following a cyberattack - had they not been using Keepit
for Entra ID (formerly Azure AD) and Keepit for Microsoft 365.
What could have been a disaster becomes a “Powerful, cloud-optimized recovery
case study in cyber resilience features packed in an intuitive user
interface makes Keepit an iron fist in a
Now a satisfied customer of Keepit for Entra ID
velvet glove.”
and Microsoft 365, the client was not always aware
of the importance of third-party data backup. - Siddick Elaheebocus
Prior to being advised by Keepit’s Elite partner Founder and CEO of INNOVISION
INNOVISION, the customer, like many companies
The timing couldn’t have been better as not long
across the globe, assumed that Microsoft 365
after implementing Keepit, their company was hit
was inherently protecting their cloud data and
by a targeted cyberattack. As part of the recovery
thus was immune from any form of data loss or
process, the company was able to quickly restore
cyberthreats. Once the client realized the vital
all impacted user accounts on Entra ID, along with
importance of a comprehensive, third-party SaaS
their Microsoft 365 data with a Recovery Time
data backup, which aligned with the 3-2-1-0
Objective (RTO) of less than 3 hours - thanks to
backup principle, they deployed Keepit to secure
Keepit.
their Entra ID and Microsoft 365 data.
“Keepit for Entra ID played a crucial role within
the recovery process by allowing the customer
to quickly restore all compromised user
identities to a fully operational state prior to
the recovery of their data.”
- Siddick Elaheebocus
Founder and CEO of INNOVISION

--- Page 3 ---
Case study:
Cyber resilience
Built in investigative features of Keepit key to incident
postmortem
As part of their cyber insurance claim process, the customer
had to provide forensic information to demonstrate the
nature of the cyberattack. A key requirement in the incident
postmortem process was to trace back changes that
happened on Entra ID objects – and, just as importantly,
when those changes happened. The built in Entra ID
About INNOVISION
metadata differencing feature in Keepit was vital in the
Founded on more than 20 years of
investigation process to identify the security drifts that took
international experience, with innovation
place on privileged Entra ID objects at an attribute level - and
in their DNA, INNOVISION is a multiregional
precisely when those changes occurred. The findings on IT solution aggregator headquartered
Keepit for Entra ID were submitted to the cyber insurance in French Polynesia with the mission to
accompany organizations in building tech
company as part of the technical evidence.
intensity. Through its strong ecosystem of
partners worldwide, INNOVISION provides
“More than a simple backup tool, Keepit is an
innovative multivendor solutions and high-
independent SaaS cyber resilience solution end services to end customers focused
on Hybrid cloud, Modern workplace
encompassing powerful recovery, cybersecurity
and Cyber resilience. INNOVISION is a
and compliance features.”
long-standing Elite partner and business
spearhead of Keepit for the South Pacific,
- Siddick Elaheebocus
Indian Ocean and EMEA region.
Founder and CEO of INNOVISION
Purpose-built, cloud-native capabilities translate into
seamless and fast recovery “The fact that Keepit is “born
in the cloud for the cloud”
For the customer, a classic on-premises to cloud restore of
allowed the customer to
Microsoft 365 data without the possibility of restoring the
quickly and efficiently recover
associated Entra ID user objects prior would have resulted
from this cybersecurity
in an inefficient recovery process taking hours or even
incident with minimal impact
days - with severe impairment on business operations. With
– a benefit which would have
Keepit for Entra ID, the customer was able to quickly and
efficiently restore all compromised user accounts prior to been near impossible to reach
restoring their cloud data – without the need to recreate any with a classic on-premises
user accounts manually from the ground up or spend time backup solution.”
configuring undocumented settings and permissions for
- Siddick Elaheebocus
each user account. Instead, all user accounts, along with
Founder and CEO of INNOVISION
their original attributes, were seamlessly restored, saving the
customer an immense amount of resources and downtime
during this cybersecurity incident.

--- Page 4 ---
Keepit future proof
Take the next step toward protecting your SaaS data
Request demo
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection Headquartered in Copenhagen with offices and data
platform purpose-built for the cloud, by securing centers worldwide, over ten thousand companies
data in a vendor-independent cloud to safeguard trust Keepit for its ease of use and effortless backup
essential business applications, boost cyber and recovery of cloud data.
resilience and future-proof data protection.
HQ - Copenhagen Dallas, Texas London Munich
Denmark United States United Kingdom Germany
Keepit A/S Keepit USA Inc. Keepit Technologies UK, LTD. Keepit Germany GmbH
Per Henrik Lings Allé 4, 7. 3232 McKinney Avenue Suite 820 Warnford Court Maximiliansplatz 22
2100 København, Denmark Dallas TX 75204, USA 29, Throgmorton Street D-80333 München
CVR: 30806883 TIN: 85-358 6335 London EC2N 2AT, UK Amtsgericht München
+45 8987 7792 +1 469-461-4892 Company reg. no.: 13785045 HRB 270094
sales@keepit.com sales@keepit.com sales@keepit.com Geschäftsführer Morten Felsvang
sales@keepit.com
© 2024 Keepit. All rights reserved. www.keepit.com
