Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/Administration/Modern%20Slavery%20and%20Human%20Trafficking%20Statement%20-%20EN.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Modern Slavery
and Human
Trafficking
Statement

--- Page 2 ---
This Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement (“Statement”)
is made pursuant to section 54 of the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015
for the financial year ended 30 September 2023 and has undergone
an internal update in June 2025. It describes Keepit’s actions to
ensure that slavery and human trafficking do not occur in our supply
chains or any part of our business operations.
Business Overview
Keepit provides next-level SaaS data protection for companies with data stored in the cloud.
Keepit's vendor-independent cloud dedicated to SaaS data protection is based on a blockchain-
verified solution. Keepit protects data in key business applications including Microsoft 365,
Microsoft Entra ID, Google, and Salesforce. Headquartered in Copenhagen with offices and data
centers globally, Keepit is trusted by thousands of companies worldwide to protect and manage
their cloud data.
Keepit A/S (CVR. No. 30806883), a Danish public limited liability company privately held, and its
affiliates (collectively referred to as “Keepit”, “we” or “our”) adhere to the same internal
governance standards as detailed in this Statement.
Keepit is not currently under the statutory requirement to publish a modern slavery statement.
However, we recognize the importance of demonstrating our commitment to ensuring that modern
slavery does not take place within our operations. As a global SaaS company, Keepit is dedicated
to acting ethically as a good corporate citizen and maintaining integrity in all of our business
relationships.
We have implemented and enforced systems and controls to ensure slavery and human
trafficking do not, to the best of our knowledge, occur anywhere in our supply chains. To achieve
this, we have established monitoring and risk assessment processes, as outlined in this
Statement, to ensure continuous oversight of our suppliers and ongoing compliance with our
obligations.
Our Supply Chains
Suppliers play an important role in Keepit’s operations, helping us to drive our business and
achieve our strategic objectives. Our suppliers include the following:
• Technology and software providers for IT systems utilized for Keepit’s internal operations.
• Providers of IT infrastructure and hardware.
• Facilities vendors such as office rentals, catering services, and repair services.
• Payroll service providers that help us administer employee salary and benefits.
Keepit only engages reputable suppliers with relevant experience and who are qualified for the
services for which they have been contracted. We work with suppliers who share our core values
and help us promote a respectful workplace environment that values ethics, complies with the
law, and believes in social responsibility. Keepit’s suppliers are, in turn, required to take steps to
prevent modern slavery in their own businesses and supply chains.
Internal Policies and Safeguards
Keepit has implemented policies and safeguards to ensure that modern slavery is not occurring
within our business or supply chains. These include:
Page 2 of 4

--- Page 3 ---
Internal Policies
• Keepit’s Code of Conduct: Keepit observes the OECD Guidelines for Multinational
Enterprises on Responsible Business, as amended from time to time (the “OECD
Guidelines”). The OECD Guidelines constitute the minimum standards for Keepit and are
integrated in Keepit’s Code of Conduct, which serves as a benchmark for us to act in a
manner that is ethical, transparent, and sustainable, respecting human rights, the
environment, and fair business practices. We uphold high standards of ethical behavior and
integrity among our employees, including a zero-tolerance policy towards modern slavery.
Keepit’s Code of Conduct explicitly prohibits the use of forced, bonded, or involuntary labor,
child labor, and any form of human trafficking. Keepit requires suppliers and their
subcontractors to comply with Keepit’s Code of Conduct or similar standards and to verify
compliance by providing information hereof and allowing access to their premises when
needed.
• Whistleblowing Policy: Keepit provides a confidential mechanism for employees,
suppliers, and other stakeholders to report any concerns related to, among others, modern
slavery. The link to our Whistleblower Reporting System is found here:
https://keepit.integrityline.com/frontpage
Additional Safeguards
• Supplier Agreements: All new suppliers are onboarded following Keepit’s procurement
process and Supplier Relationship Management Policy, which require that the legal terms
and conditions in supplier agreements be reviewed by Keepit’s Legal team.
• Employment policies: Keepit has internal policies in place that account for the processes
that are applied before, during, and after the hiring of employees and/or engagement of
consultants. This includes the performance of screening and background check, where
applicable, in accordance with relevant laws, regulations, ethics, and Keepit guidelines.
• Diversity and equal opportunity practices: Keepit considers itself an equal opportunity
employer, basing employment decisions on qualifications, experience, and potential. Keepit
has increased its focus on diversity and inclusion within the company, ensuring further that
modern slavery, in any form, does not go undetected in our recruitment process.
Due Diligence and Risk Assessment
Implementing our policies and procedures includes thorough due diligence on the suppliers we
engage with in accordance with our procurement process. We have implemented comprehensive
risk assessment and due diligence processes to prevent, among others, modern slavery within
our operations. Keepit’s approach includes:
• Supplier Risk Assessment: Keepit performs detailed assessments of new and existing
suppliers. These risk assessments evaluate suppliers based on their relative risk to Keepit.
Assessments are conducted by cross-functional stakeholders, including the Legal and
Information Security teams, to ensure a comprehensive evaluation of the risk involved in
engaging with the new supplier.
• Due Diligence: Keepit conducts due diligence when onboarding new suppliers. In doing so,
Keepit considers the type of activity performed by the supplier and analyzes the location of
the supplier and its subsidiaries to evaluate regional risks and regulatory environments.
Keepit does not select suppliers based purely on pricing but also considers location,
reputation, and supplier business practices.
Page 3 of 4

--- Page 4 ---
• Sanction Lists Compliance: Keepit strictly adheres to international sanction lists and does
not conduct business with entities located in any countries or territories sanctioned by the EU,
UN, or US to ensure that our operations comply with global regulatory standards.
• Contractual Obligations: Depending on the type of product or service provided, Keepit may
include specific clauses in its contracts with suppliers to enforce compliance with our policies,
integrity, and human rights standards.
Monitoring the effectiveness of the measures taken
To ensure the effectiveness of our measures against modern slavery, Keepit reserves the right
to perform regular audits of its suppliers with a focus on adherence to Keepit’s ethical standards.
This includes requiring suppliers to comply with Keepit’s Code of Conduct or similar standards
and implement and maintain measures that minimize the risk of modern slavery within their
business and supply chains.
Additionally, Keepit actively registers and monitors any complaints received through its
Whistleblower Reporting System. We encourage our employees and stakeholders to report any
ethical concerns, including those related to modern slavery, through the designated channels.
Our commitment to conducting business with integrity involves taking all reports seriously,
investigating them thoroughly and confidentially, and taking appropriate action when necessary.
Training and Awareness
We believe that awareness and education are key to preventing modern slavery. Employees are
required to familiarize themselves with the Keepit Code of Conduct, which includes Keepit’s
commitment to respecting fundamental and internationally recognized human rights in every area
in which we operate. Additionally, Keepit states in its Code of Conduct its commitment to ensure
that our company does not negatively impact human rights and that no person should be subject
to ill or inhumane treatment. In turn, all suppliers, their employees, and subcontractors are
required to comply with the principles in the Code of Conduct.
Further Steps
Next year, Keepit will continue to assess the effectiveness of its policies and programs to measure
performance and identify areas for continued improvement. Keepit will continue to review its
compliance efforts, including its due diligence processes around slavery and human trafficking to
ensure that our suppliers adhere to the same values and ethics. Keepit will implement staff
training where necessary and continue to monitor its effectiveness in ensuring that slavery and
human trafficking are not taking place in any part of our business.
Page 4 of 4
