Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/Case%20Stories/ParkNFly-Use-Case-Cloud-Backup.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Customer case:
Park ‘N Fly
Park ‘N Fly chooses
Keepit for its unparalleled
ease of use

--- Page 2 ---
Customer case: Park ‘N Fly
In search of a secure cloud backup solution,
Park ‘N Fly chose Keepit as their Microsoft 365
backup and recovery solution. An easy-to-use
solution, Keepit saves time and gives the IT team
at Park ‘N Fly peace of mind.
No More Micromanaging Multiple Backup “I can’t speak more highly
Applications about the fact that I can have
Prior to using Keepit, Senior Director of IT Keepit running in the back end,
Ken Schirrmacher shares that his daily tasks and I know it’s backing every-
involved micromanaging multiple backup
thing up.”
solutions – a timedrain that stole energy from
his day-to-day workload. Keepit’s easy-to-use Ken Schirrmacher
Sr. Director of IT/Interim CIO, Park ‘N Fly
solution provides the comprehensive backup
that Park ‘N Fly needs, giving Ken’s IT team the
opportunity to focus on other tasks.
“Our everyday is busy enough with keeping
everything up and running. Keepit’s solu-
tion does its job in the background so that
we can focus on other tasks.”
Ken Schirrmacher
Sr. Director of IT/Interim CIO, Park ‘N Fly
Microsoft Backup “Not Enough” “I like to call Keepit a Steady
Aware of Microsoft’s own recommendation to Eddie. I know it’s working; I
use a third-party backup, Park ‘N Fly decided know it’s running, and I don’t
that relying on Microsoft for backup wasn’t have to sweat it.”
enough. After all, in the event of data loss,
Microsoft may not be able to deliver a data Ken Schirrmacher
Sr. Director of IT/Interim CIO, Park ‘N Fly
restore. Park ‘N Fly chose Keepit as their backup
solution to ensure that their data was being
backed up twice daily, giving them peace of
mind knowing that their data was safe in the
event of data loss or data deletion.

--- Page 3 ---
Customer case: Park ‘N Fly
“If you don’t have third-party backup and
Microsoft cannot restore your data, you’re
just out of luck. We went with Keepit to en-
sure both consistent backup and long-term
retention of our data.”
Ken Schirrmacher
Sr. Director of IT/Interim CIO, Park ‘N Fly
Unparalleled Ease of Use
When Park ‘N Fly first started using Keepit, they
were amazed at how easy it was to setup and
use the platform. For the first time in a while,
Senior Director of IT Ken Schirrmacher explains
that he didn’t have to have “four or five different
versions of the software running” to secure the
backup.
About Park ‘N Fly
Park ‘N Fly is the leader in affordable
“Our previous backup solutions created offsite airport parking, providing
an easy way to save time when
micromanagment-style tasks that we don’t
parking at the airport. Park ‘N Fly’s
have time for. With Keepit, we receive all our
convenient service picks customers
backup needs in one place.” up at their car and transports them to
their desired airport terminal. Park ‘N
Ken Schirrmacher Fly has been the leaders in offairport
Sr. Director of IT/Interim CIO, Park ‘N Fly parking for 55 years.
Learn how Keepit can securely
Request demo
back up and recover your data
www.keepit.com
