Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/Partner/Quorum-Partner-case.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Partner Case: Quorum
Why Austrian IT Security As one of the country’s leading IT security specialists,
Quorum ensures businesses throughout Austria meet
Specialist Quorum is Both complex data security and availability requirements. The
decision to offer Keepit as part of their portfolio was a
a Keepit Partner and given. After all, Quorum themselves use Keepit to protect
their business-critical data.
Customer
As both a Keepit customer and partner,
we are the ultimate proof of concept.
Alexander Paral
Managing Director, Quorum
A Strong, Straightforward Partnership
For Mr. Paral, it’s vital that Quorum maintains competitive
margins in its go-to-market strategy. Keepit’s partner-
oriented program and collaborative approach help it
do just that, while also ensuring Quorum’s customers are
secure and compliant.
Page 1

--- Page 2 ---
Partner Case: Quorum
Keepit’s support offering The Best Support in the Business
According to Mr. Paral, offering competent support in
truly exceeds the standard. a timely fashion shouldn’t be a key differentiator in the
industry, but it does set Keepit apart. Keepit teams take
Their support team pride in offering truly best-in-class support to customers.
really goes the extra mile Partnering directly with Keepit rather
than through Veritas greatly improved
and genuinely cares for our
our customer offering. It’s much easier
needs.
to deal directly with Keepit –we get a
fair price, competitive margins and an
Alexander Paral
easy-to-use partner-friendly platform.
Managing Director, Quorum
Alexander Paral
Trust Us, We Trust Keepit
Quorum trusts Keepit’s cloud backup offering to protect
its own business-critical data – the ultimate proof of
concept. Mr. Paral explains that as Keepit customer,
Quorum staff can easily showcase Keepit’s ease of use
and benefits to their customer base: “With Keepit in our
portfolio, we provide solid, reliable SaaS data protection
to large enterprises and SMBs in Austria.”
About Quorum
Founded in 2004 and headquartered in Vienna, Austrian IT-security
specialist Quorum delivers tailor-made security, business development
and IT storage management solutions. Their mission is to ensure that
businesses meet complex data security and availability requirements.
Get in touch with Keepit
Reach out for our partner account managers to learn
more about our Partner Program.
+45 8987 4757
partner@keepit.com
Page 2
