Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/content-assets/EN/SaaS-data-security-key-takeaways.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Key takeaways
SaaS data security:
Risks, threats, and resilience
We’re at a critical juncture for data security; the
pressure to innovate with AI and manage SaaS
complexity is redefining what it means to protect
data. What’s needed now is data security as a
control — direct, data-centric protections that
govern access, usage, and lifecycle. Organizations
need to rethink their approach to data, which
includes understanding the risks, mitigating the
threats, and ensuring resilience.
This was the key focus of a recent Keepit webinar,
where guest speaker Heidi Shey, Principal Analyst
at Forrester Research, broke down the key
components of a data-centric security strategy
for SaaS environments and discussed practical
next steps to adopt to both the knowns and the
unknowns organizations are facing.
Three important steps to
strengthen your security posture
Step 1: Define what to protect Step 2: Identify the risks to mitigate
Rethink what “sensitive data” really means and Understand the three dimensions of risk when
classify the full spectrum of data your organization planning for which risks to mitigate. Risk isn’t just to
relies on. Start with the three Ps (PII, PHI, PCI) your data, it also comes from and in the data:
and intellectual property — but go further. Every
• To the data: ransomware, insider threats, SaaS
organization has corporate data of value (CDV):
misconfigurations, failed backups
• Chat and collaboration data
• From the data: privacy violations, unethical use,
• IoT and sensor streams non-compliance
• API keys, credentials, and developer secrets • In the data: stale, duplicated, or incomplete
information that fuels bad decisions or AI bias
• AI models
• SaaS data — and backups
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved.

--- Page 2 ---
Step 3: Select data security capabilities and controls
Map controls to the right risks. No tool solves every risk — so you need to align controls purposefully.
Most importantly, consider how to secure your SaaS environments. SaaS applications have certain controls built in,
but the shared responsibility model adds further complexity — not all the responsibility is on the SaaS provider, so
you need to balance native versus third-party controls. You’ll need to enlist the help of specialist vendors to fill the
gaps of these environments when it comes to data security.
Resilience requires strategy, not hope:
Three checkpoints to improve resilience
1. Align with your vendors on the following 2. Security isn’t a solo act. Expand your stakeholder
resilience requirements: group to include these stakeholders:
Improved data classification Data stakeholders
Integration with data governance Product owners
Visibility into machine/API data flows Data science and analytics leads
Controls for AI prompts, outputs, and training AI councils and compliance boards
Vendor readiness for post-quantum migration and agility
“We are at this turning point, so use
3. Ask the question: Does this solution introduce new risk?
it as an opportunity to take a leap
Risk is multifold and consists of:
forward with your data security
Technology risks program to make bigger, beautiful
things happen for your organization.”
Regulatory risks
Heidi Shey, Principal Analyst, Forrester.
Operational risks
Data governance report
Read our data governance report for more insight into how to
best classify, protect, and recover your data so you can ensure
operational continuity.
Download now
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data in a vendor-
independent cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and future-proof data protection.
© 2024 Keepit. All rights reserved.
© 2024 Keepit. All rights reserved.
For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on Linkedin © 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved.
