Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/Partner/SEP-Keepit-Partner-Case.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Partner Case: SEP
German Backup Specialist SEP, one of Germany’s most prominent backup providers,
provides enterprise companies with backup and disaster
SEP Partners with Keepit recovery solutions and services. In partnering with Keepit,
SEP can provide their customers with a trusted platform
to Provide Highest Level of to protect and manage SaaS cloud applications like
Microsoft 365.
Data Security
With the SEP Cloud Application
Protection Service powered by Keepit,
we can now offer backup for cloud
applications like Microsoft 365,
Dynamics 365, Salesforce and Google
Workspace to our clients, which is a
huge benefit.
Susanne Moosreiner
Administration Director at SEP
Page 1

--- Page 2 ---
Partner Case: SEP
Keepit is an all-inclusive It Simply Works!
According to SEP Administration Director Susanne
backup and recovery Moosreiner, Keepit provides a complete cloud-based
solution that is easy to set up, easy to use, and ensures
service that provides GDPR compliance. While other vendors require additional
storage and retention fees, Keepit allows SEP to offer an
powerful features as well all-inclusive seat pricing to their clients.
as unlimited storage and GDPR Compliance & Data Sovereignty
Compliance and data protection regulations are of the
retention. utmost importance for SEP and their clients. As a German
and European vendor, SEP is required to comply to GDPR
regulations and ensure that all client data is stored within
Susanne Moosreiner the EU. As data remains within Europe/Germany, SEP can
Administration Director at SEP guarantee full control, ensuring data sovereignty.
It is key for us and our clients that
Keepit has data centers in Europe and
is compliant with GDPR regulations.
Susanne Moosreiner
Localized Support for the German Market
By partnering with Keepit, SEP has chosen to handle
everything from sales to implementation and support of
the cloud backup solution, which is especially important
in the German market.
We face our customers throughout the
whole sales and onboarding process,
offering a localized experience to
companies in the DACH-region.
Susanne Moosreiner
About SEP
SEP provides the leading German software solution for Backup and
Disaster Recovery in heterogenous environments. SEP has been
delivering the widest range of backup products for enterprise-level
customer since 1992. SEP has a strong partner network and relies
100% on resellers for sales. SEP has satisfied customers in more than 50
countries.
Get in touch with Keepit
Reach out for our partner account managers to learn
more about our Partner Program.
+45 8987 4757
partner@keepit.com
Page 2
