Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/Case%20Stories/SIG-PLC.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Customer case:
SIG PLC
Keepit provides SIG
PLC with the ultimate
insurance policy

--- Page 2 ---
Customer case:
SIG PLC
Aware that Microsoft only backs up live data,
SIG chose Keepit as their third-party backup of
choice to secure their data in the cloud.
Keepit provides SIG with an unparalleled level
of data security by delivering immutable data
“People think that Microsoft
backup and role-based access control across
has got everything backed
multiple regions.
up. The reality is: they have
your live data secured, but if
Keepit’s immutable backup for M365
you want to go back in time,
delivers security, saves time
or if an admin deletes your
After researching other backup options, Graham
data and all your backups,
Gunner, Group Head of Infrastructure at SIG
you’re dead in the water.”
PLC, shares that Keepit’s cloud backup solution
delivered the security they were searching for. Graham Gunner
After a quick and easy setup, Keepit effectively Group Head of Infrastructure
SIG PLC
ensured that SIG’s M365 backup was immutable
and undeletable. Compared to relying on
Microsoft’s limited backup options, SIG could
rest assured that their data would be available and
restorable in the case of data loss.
“Keepit is an insurance policy
for us. If the worst happens,
then we’ve got our data stored
somewhere else.”
Graham Gunner
Group Head of Infrastructure
SIG PLC

--- Page 3 ---
Customer case:
SIG PLC
“The ability to delegate access across six
different regions was key for us. In the case of
an admin credential getting compromised,
this setup would ensure that we could restore
multiple users at once.”
Graham Gunner
Group Head of Infrastructure
SIG PLC
Role-based access control provides simplicity
across global teams
With separate IT teams across 6 countries, SIG was
on the lookout for a backup solution that could
provide each country with their own autonomy.
Keepit delivered role-based access control so
that each IT team could operate with their own
policies, giving each region simple, country-level
control. With over 7,000 users in these six regions, About SIG PLC
SIG experiences an added benefit of being able SIG is a leading supplier of specialist
insulation and sustainable building products
to preserve user data once a user has left, without
and solutions to business customers across
having to pay extra licensing fees.
Europe. With annual revenue of £2.3 billion,
SIG employs more than 6,800 people in the
Third-party backup the answer to rising UK, France, Germany, Ireland, Benelux, and
Poland and is listed on the London Stock
ransomware threats
Exchange (SHI).
SIG views Keepit as an insurance policy. Aware
of the rise in ransomware threats globally, SIG is
aware of their responsibility of backing up their
data in the cloud. Even if an admin credential were
to become comprised, SIG is confident that they
would be able to quickly restore their data even
in the event of temporary data loss. The promise
of undeletable data allows SIG to rest easy that
their data will still be backed up in the event of a
ransomware attack.

--- Page 4 ---
Learn how Keepit can
securely back up and
recover your data
Request demo
Keepit provides next-level SaaS data protection Headquartered in Copenhagen with offices and data
purpose-built for the cloud, by securing data in a centers worldwide, over ten thousand companies
vendor-independent cloud to safeguard essential trust Keepit for its ease of use and effortless backup
business applications, boost cyber resilience and and recovery of cloud data.
future-proof data protection.
HQ - Copenhagen Dallas, Texas London Munich
Denmark United States United Kingdom Germany
Keepit A/S Keepit USA Inc. Keepit Technologies UK, LTD. Keepit Germany GmbH
Per Henrik Lings Allé 4, 7. 3232 McKinney Avenue Suite 820 Warnford Court Maximiliansplatz 22
2100 København, Denmark Dallas TX 75204, USA 29, Throgmorton Street 380639 München
CVR: 30806883 TIN: 85-358 6335 London EC2N 2AT, UK Amtsgericht München,
+45 8987 7792 +1 469-461-4892 Company reg. no.: 13785045 HRB 270094
sales@keepit.com sales@keepit.com sales@keepit.com Geschäftsführer Morten Felsvang
sales@keepit.com
© 2024 Keepit. All rights reserved. www.keepit.com
