Source: https://www.keepit.com/Assets/Pdf/Talke_customer_case.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
Customer Story: TALKE GROUP
The TALKE Group handles Since 2018, ALFRED TALKE GmbH & Co. KG (the
German logistics service provider of chemicals and
some of the world’s most petrochemicals) has been transitioning its over 350
business-critical applications to the cloud – 90 percent
hazardous logistics – in Microsoft’s SaaS-services, including Office 365,
SharePoint, Exchange, and Active Directory. As one
Keepit handles TALKE’S of the leading logistics service providers of chemicals
globally, a data breach would not only massively affect
backup and data TALKE’s business, but also the whole supply chain and the
underlying industries.
protection
Company
Since 1947, TALKE and it’s now 4,600 employees have
transported, stored, and handled hazardous materials
for companies around the world. They also offer
consultations, designs, and implementations of relevant
structures and systems to contain chemicals.
The company has offices in Europe, the US, and Asia,
with its main offices in Germany. If data is not protected
properly, a data breach or ransomware attack could
impact not only TALKE but also disrupt the whole supply
chain, potentially affecting thousands of companies.
Page 1

--- Page 2 ---
Customer Story: TALKE GROUP
Goals & Objectives
TALKE is in a transition period, modernizing their old
legacy systems and outsourcing their complete local
and wide-area network – all while moving their over 350
business-critical applications to the cloud, hereunder SAP
and Microsoft applications.
So far, the digitalization process started with Office 365,
including OneDrive and OneNote, Exchange and Active
Directory, as well as moving TALKE’s large SharePoint
on-premises server into the cloud. At the same time, the
company has begun to embrace Teams instead of Skype.
From the get-go, backup and restore are not possible
from the cloud services, which is a massive security
problem.
The goal was, therefore, to implement one backup
platform to securely and easily handle backup and
restore all the cloud instances, from Office 365 and
We needed an easy Exchange, to SharePoint and Teams from the very
beginning.
and cost-efficient setup
Approach
that is still secure and is Keepit initially presented a proof of concept tailored
to TALKE’s needs and requirements, built from detailed
compliant with GDPR, while discussions, where Keepit learned about the company’s
key needs and business requirements, as well as their
still providing 100 percent daily work and dataflow. Under the implementation,
TALKE’s IT tested the workflow of restoring data, which
uptime. Therefore, we ended performed flawlessly every time.
up with Keepit. It’s a fire-and-forget solution, meaning that after we
implemented it, there has not been the need for a lot of
maintenance, and it is easy to use and to restore files as
the request arrives. Having a functional and problem-free
Nenad Ljubetic backup and restore strategy is an absolute must-have for
Head of IT us in our industry, and Keepit helps us with that.
TALKE Group Nenad Ljubetic
Page 2

--- Page 3 ---
Customer Story: TALKE GROUP
Results
Since the integration of Keepit’s solution, TALKE has had a
seamless backup solution with no errors and an uptime of
100 percent. Restoring files and data on request from the
4,600 employees is easy and done quickly.
Shortly after the collaboration was initiated, TALKE had
to restore some specific emails, which was done without
restoring the whole mailbox. TALKE’s data is now backed
up and secured within the borders of Europe, living up to
both German and European Data Protection and Privacy
regulations (GDPR).
TALKE is one of the world’s leading logistics service providers for the
chemical and petrochemical industry. The core competencies of the
company founded in 1947 include the transport, storage and handling
of hazardous and harmless materials in all aggregate states. With a
total of more than 4,600 employees, TALKE is active within Europe, the
Middle East, India, China and the United States.
Get in touch with Keepit
Reach out for a talk and get a free 30-day trial.
+45 8987 7792
sales@keepit.com
Page 3
