Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/Case%20Stories/Technology_Did_It-Partner_Case.pdf?_gl=1*6fqvmb*_gcl_au*MTAwMDg3NjE2OS4xNjg5MTQ4NDY2*_ga*MTYyMzA3NjIwMS4xNjY0ODAwMTg5*_ga_QN4TJ1NCZ3*MTY5NjI0NjM5OS40NzMuMS4xNjk2MjQ2ODEzLjU5LjAuMA..

--- Page 1 ---
Partner case: Technology Did It
Technology Did It
Leverages Keepit
to help US government supplier
recover from ransomware

--- Page 2 ---
Partner case: Technology Did It
As a valued Keepit partner, Technology Did It
recommended Keepit’s backup and recovery
solution to a US government supplier.
After being hit by ransomware, the US
government supplier utilized the Keepit
solution to recover from the event. Even in
the face of the attack, the Keepit solution
ensured that the customer’s data remained
impenetrable to the ransomware.
Microsoft backup not sufficient
Familiar with the Microsoft shared
responsibility model, the US government
supplier knew that their versioning and
recycling bins were not fully protected. When
Technology Did It recommended Keepit as
a third-party cloud backup solution, the US
government supplier instituted Keepit as an
end-user protection tool.
“Even though Microsoft
data lives in the cloud, you
shouldn’t rely on Microsoft
for backup, as they do not
offer sufficient protection.”
Tiffany Carra
Owner of Technology Did It

--- Page 3 ---
Partner case: Technology Did It
Back to work Monday morning
Following the Conti ransomware attack, the
US government supplier decided to restore
the data from Keepit back to Sharepoint. They
were able to restore all data within 30 minutes.
In fact, the attack took place on a Friday, and
the company continued business as usual the
following Monday. For companies who do not
have proper backup in place, a ransomware
attack can lead to days, weeks, and even
months of downtime, leading to astronomical
costs to the business. IT consultancy
Technology Did It explains that Keepit allowed
the US government supplier to restore their
data quickly and easily so that the business
could keep running as usual.
Technology Did It encourages other
“The US government sup-
companies to use third-party backup
plier was hit by Conti ran- In light of this attack, Technology Did It urges
somware on a Friday. other companies not to rely on Microsoft to
back up their data. Even though Microsoft’s
The entire organization was
data lives in the cloud and there are versions and
back up and running on recycling bins that may make you feel secure,
Monday morning.” they do not deliver a comprehensive backup
solution, meaning you could lose access to data
Tiffany Carra
in the event of a ransomware attack.
Owner of Technology Did It
Following this success story, Technology Did It
recommends Keepit to other companies who
are looking for a secure, reliable and simple
backup solution.
Keepit is a no brainer. It’s
secure, cost-effective and
easy to maintain.
Tiffany Carra
Owner of Technology Did It

--- Page 4 ---
Partner case: Technology Did It
About Technology Did It
Technology Did It is a managed services Get in touch with Keepit
provider focused on providing outstanding IT Reach out for our partner account managers to
support for small businesses that otherwise learn more about our Partner Program.
would be unable to navigate the muddled IT +45 8987 4757
waters in the twenty-first century. With close to partner@keepit.com
40 years combined IT experience, our goal is to
provide your small business with the technology
solutions it needs to be both agile and cost-
effective in your everyday work environment.
