Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/Partner/Why-Keepit-MSP.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
EEffffoorrttlleessss SSaaaaSS pprrootteeccttiioonn ffoorr MMSSPPss
Data in SaaS platforms is growing fast—and so is the risk. One accidental deletion or breach can bring your customers to
a halt. Keepit gives MSPs the power to deliver seamless, secure backup and recovery for Microsoft 365 and customers
business. With Keepit, you reduce complexity, respond faster, and build a more profitable service offering.It’s low
effort, high impact. Green means GO—with Keepit.
Less friction
“By 2029, 80% of enterprises
Keepit’s purpose-built SaaS platform gives you a clean, unified view across all
will prioritize backup of SaaS
your customers—removing the need for switching between tools and minimizing
chaos. Our multi-tenant MSP Portal makes it easy to scale, automate, and applications as a critical requirement,
onboard new clients fast. Minimal training, maximum productivity—so your team compared with 20% in 2025.”
can spend less time managing backups and more time growing the business.
Gartner® , Magic Quadrant™ for Backup and
Data Protection Platforms, 24 June 2025*
Faster recovery
When something goes wrong, your customers count on you to fix it—fast. Cost over data
Keepit is 100% independent and doesn’t rely on Microsoft or any hyperscaler
Storage
storage. That means you stay in control. Real-time dashboards and early- costs
warning alerts help you catch issues before they become problems, and
instant access to backup data means you’re always ready to respond. Other providers
Keepit
Accelerated profits
Keepit keeps your margins clean. Our pricing is simple—unlimited
storage and retention, with no hidden fees for ingress, egress, or
restores. That means fewer billing surprises, lower overhead, and
a more profitable path to growing your MSP business.
Time
As organizations prioritize backup of SaaS applications, Keepit enables MSPs to offer
scaleable, immutable, and compliant services to customers.
Cloud-native data protection Data sovereignty
• Scalable and adaptive, unlike on-prem • Data stays protected in the chosen region
solutions retrofitted for the cloud
• Own data centers in seven countries
• Purpose-built, Keepit works smoothly across SaaS applications on three continents
• No infrastructure and maintenance costs associated
with on-premises or hybrid alternatives Immutable backups by design
• Built so that it’s impossible to change or delete
files, guaranteeing true immutability
Secure and encrypted
• AES encryption employed directly
on our storage systems
• Advanced encryption standards
both in transit and at rest
• Keepit exchanges traffic directly with workload
providers over major internet exchange
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved.

--- Page 2 ---
Tried, tested, and proven
“We’ve now got complete confidence and visibility “We needed to back up our Microsoft 365 hosted data
that all of our Microsoft 365 and Google Workspace and were looking for the most effective way to do that.
user data is being backed up on a single platform. We looked at free or low-cost cloud-to-on-prem
Since Microsoft doesn’t guarantee our data, I need a solutions but Keepit’s low management overhead and
solution like Keepit. Data retention is absolutely key simplicity to configure and use made it a much better
for us, and ultimately the data is my responsibility.” solution and worth the cost.”
| James Mallet, Head of Global Infrastructure, Cognita | Chris Downing, Systems Engineer, Prince Alfred College
Recognized by the industry
WINNER
CYBER DEFENSE MAGAZINE
2025
Experience how Keepit gives MSPs
the green light to profitability,
schedule a demo today.
Book a demo
Next-level SaaS data protection
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data
in a vendor-independent cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and
future-proof data protection. For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on Linkedin.
© 2025 Keepit. All rights reserved. Microsoft and Microsoft Entra ID are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.
