Source: https://lp.keepit.com/hubfs/product-sheets/Why-Keepit.pdf

--- Page 1 ---
The only vendor-independent, cloud-native platform
for intelligent SaaS data protection
Strategies for managing, protecting, and recovering the
“By 2029, 80% of enterprises
exponentially growing amount of data in SaaS applications
will prioritize backup of SaaS
haven’t kept pace with the rapid adoption of SaaS.
applications as a critical
Companies now manage an average of 106 SaaS applications*
requirement, compared with
— a scale that demands stronger controls and smarter
20% in 2025.”
governance..
Gartner® , Magic Quadrant™ for Backup and
The challenge is clear: Legacy technologies and outdated Data Protection Platforms, 24 June 2025*
tactics fail to effectively protect SaaS data.
*2025 State of SaaS Trends - Better Cloud
Keepit is the intelligent choice for SaaS data protection. Intelligently built in the cloud for the
cloud, it ensures immutable, sovereign backups and instant access to all data with actionable
insights. Its intelligent recovery saves you time and reduces complexity, so your teams can
stay focused on what matters.
INTELLIGENT CHOICE
Secure, unified, cost-effective
Vendor-independent cloud Time-saving usability Cost over data
• Keepit owns its infrastructure, • With no need for maintenance
Storage
independent from public cloud or infrastructure, your staff can
costs
providers and hyperscalers focus on core activities
• Backups remain segregated from • Easy setup and intuitive interface Other providers
production and compliant with speed up adoption and processes
the highest security standards Keepit
Predictable and stable cost.
Uniform platform across
No fine print
applications
• Pricing based on seats
• Single pane of glass for with unlimited storage
all SaaS applications
• Up to unlimited
• Streamlined processes for customizable retention
optimal productivity
• Zero fees for data ingress, Time
egress, or transfer
© 2026 Keepit. All rights reserved.
*Gartner and Magic Quadrant are registered trademarks of Gartner, Inc. and/or its affiliates in the U.S. and internationally and are used herein with permission.
All rights reserved.

--- Page 2 ---
INTELLIGENTLY BUILT
Scalable, immutable, compliant
Cloud-native data protection Data sovereignty
• Scalable and adaptive, unlike on-prem • Data stays protected in the chosen region
solutions retrofitted for the cloud
• Own data centers in seven countries on three continents
• Purpose-built, Keepit works smoothly
across SaaS applications
• No infrastructure and maintenance costs associated Immutable backups by design
with on-premises or hybrid alternatives
• Built so that it’s impossible to change or delete
files, guaranteeing true immutability
Secure and encrypted
• AES encryption employed directly
on our storage systems
• Advanced encryption standards
both in transit and at rest
• Keepit exchanges traffic directly with workload
providers over major internet exchange
INTELLIGENT RECOVERY
Flexible, intuitive, precise
Instant access to all Actionable insights
versions of your data
• Consolidated view over the
• Always hot storage, no health and performance of
hydration periods backup and recovery jobs
• No matter how old, • Early warnings for anomalies
instantly preview, share, and threats to data integrity
or restore data objects • Secure integrations with
• Intuitive search function AI and security tools
Transparency and Flexible restore options
accountability
• Allows restore in bulk or
• Customizable alerts and granularly, delivering fast
reports to document and precise recovery
compliance and disaster
recovery preparedness
© 2026 Keepit. All rights reserved.

--- Page 3 ---
Tried, tested, and proven
“With Emmi’s international business activities, it “The fact that Keepit is “born in the cloud for the cloud”
was also important that technology partners could allowed the customer to quickly and efficiently recover
provide a globally available and scalable offering. from this cybersecurity incident with minimal impact – a
Keepit is proving to be the ideal partner for mastering benefit which would have been near impossible to reach
the challenges of a globally active dairy.” with a classic on-premises backup solution.”
| Marc Baumann, Lead Data Platform Services, Emmi | - Siddick Elaheebocus, Founder and CEO of INNOVISION
Recognized by the industry
Find out how simple and
easy it is to use Keepit
Book a demo
Your data. Here today. Here tomorrow.
Keepit provides a next-level SaaS data protection platform purpose-built for the cloud by securing data
in a vendor-independent cloud to safeguard essential business applications, boost cyber resilience, and
future-proof data protection. For more information visit www.keepit.com or follow Keepit on Linkedin.
© 2026 Keepit. All rights reserved. Microsoft and Microsoft Entra ID are trademarks of the Microsoft group of companies.
