KEEPIT KNOWLEDGE BASE — BLOG
Generated: 2026-08-02
Pages: 135
============================================================

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-02-23T21:47:40+01:00
Retrieved: 2026-08-02

============================================================

When the cloud goes dark: Resilience lessons from hybrid threats
Read customer case
Read the report
Watch on-demand
Watch now
Download whitepaper
Read the report
Register now
Careers at Keepit
Find a partner
Watch now
Industry experts sharing insights and experiences to help empower intelligent decisions for data resilience
Filter content:
The Hugging Face incident shows why organizations need an independent, immutable source of truth when production data can no longer be trusted.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/3-2-1-backup-rule/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T02:48:38+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Backup strategy for the 3-2-1 principle
Data loss comes in all sizes: small (individual files), medium (SharePoint site), and large (ransomware and disaster recovery). No matter the size of the loss of data, none of them are fun, and even the smallest of data loss events could leave you lacking your most critical data.
That one spreadsheet or that one hard disk drive could have what you and your business rely on most – it’s not always something someone can “just create again” on a whim as data loss is indiscriminate in its impact.
All data loss events negatively impact workflow, and all are risk and data protection concerns that ultimately are a business imperative. Proactive data protection through backup and data management is at the forefront of all of our minds—or at least should be. Now why is that?
Years ago, the assumption prevailed that cloud services would “take care of everything” once you signed up for a cloud service, with backup being lumped in. But now, more than ever, as the awareness of shared responsibility models for SaaS applications grows which states it is the user who is responsible, it's clear the onus is on you to have that backup strategy in place.
That’s why the 3-2-1 backup rule—a principle established for on-premises infrastructure which requires multiple copies of backup data on different devices and in separate locations—is still relevant to today’s cloud-based infrastructures by providing essential data-protection guidelines.
Why back up cloud SaaS data, and why now?
Your data is critical to your business operations, and in many cases, maintaining control of and access to it is required by law. (Read more about how third-party security keeps companies in control of their data.)
SaaS Shared Responsibility Model
Software-as-a-service providers have established documentation that clarifies the areas of responsibilities they have and also those responsibilities that are retained by the customer.
Microsoft, well known for its Microsoft 365 SaaS offering, delineates the boundaries of shared responsibility in the cloud.
While Microsoft does provide some degree of data protection, many people are not aware of the limitations of this protection. The short of it is that Microsoft does not provide suitable backup and restore functionality to customers. Learn more about why your M365 is not backed up (and how to fix it) in our in-depth article.
And it’s not only Microsoft that has a shared responsibility for their SaaS services.
Google (and backup files to Google drive) has what they refer to, almost ominously, as “shared fate” on Google cloud shared responsibilities.
Likewise, Amazon Web Services (AWS) have their own shared responsibility model. It’s vital customers know and understand the extent of their agreement.
Risks to data security
In the days of on-premises backup, the only credible risks were acts of mother nature and hardware failure.
That is, of course, if you ignore software issues. Lots of software (from firmware on RAID adapters to drivers to operating system filesystem implementations and the user applications) problems would cause data loss and a need for restore, from system level down to file level. (That’s one thing I don’t miss about the ‘90s.)
However, in the cloud-computing era, the risks have evolved as much as the ways in which we create, share, and store data, so things are much more complicated now.
With both the prevalence and penetration of ransomware, cybercrime, and not to mention the increased access users have in order to streamline collaboration interactions and boost productivity, data—the lifeblood of a company—has, in many ways, never been more susceptible to data loss, regardless of whether it’s international (malicious actors, ransomware, etc.) or unintentional (human error, accidental deletion).
Sometimes going back to basics can be the place to start in developing or hardening security.
3-2-1 backup method
The 3-2-1 principle comes from the days of on-premises data storage. It is still commonly referenced today in the modern, cloud-computing area.
Even though it isn’t directly applicable, word for word, to cloud data, this well-known and widely used principle can still be used today to guide security decision makers in their process of improving their security infrastructure against today’s data risks.
Roughly speaking, the 3-2-1 backup rule requires 3 copies of data, across two types of storage media, with one off-site copy stored.
What is the origin of the 3-2-1 rule?
Backup and recovery solutions have existed since long before cloud computing. However, the methodologies have shifted due to the modernization of the infrastructures, behaviors, needs, and of course a lot more variables (but we won’t get into that here), which has resulted in some discrepancies between best-practice principles and their application to modern data infrastructures.
This is also the case with the 3-2-1 backup rule, with the biggest change being the shift of how data is created and stored (or rather where).
Formerly, production data was created on site and stored in on-premises hardware, alongside one backup copy, and the third being stored off premises and typically on tapes. ComputerWeekly has a feature on if the cloud has made 3-2-1 obsolete.
In the cloud era, data is created in numerous places by remote workers in SaaS applications, where it is often transferred around the globe, and is stored “somewhere else” from a business’s physical office. More than likely, the extent of an answer to the question of “where is your data stored” is that it’s in the cloud. But is that backup? And what is true backup in the cloud?
How does the rule apply to cloud backup?
We often see iterations of this backup principle in fancy infographics that almost forget to translate the rules to apply to the current scenarios. However, with a few tweaks, there’s plenty of relevant guidance that can help lead to a successful, modern, data security system.
Let’s look at the rules with a modern lens:
3 Copies of your data
The ‘3’ in the rule refers to the number of “copies of your data,” with one being the primary dataset in the production environment while the remaining two copies are backups. This is still applicable to modern data protection best practices.
2 Administrative domains
As mentioned, the ‘2’ can be understood as “two administrative domains” so that copies are managed independently from the other or are stored within separate logical environments. You often see this written as “two types of media,” which is a relic from the on-prem past when it was made up of disks and tapes.
Now, it’s about having copies across multiple disks and across two administrative domains so that one data-loss event cannot possibly—or is extremely unlikely to—impact all copies of the data. This is known as a logical gap.
Without it, should there be a cloud-wide compromise (such as a breach) or data loss event of the cloud where your primary data lives, your data would not be available to you.
One of the best-known examples of this is the Danish shipping giant Maersk and the infamous NotPetya cyberattack, dubbed “the most devastating cyberattack in history” in the full Wired story.
When working “in” the cloud, the building you are in isn’t of any real consequence to the data. Rather, it’s the cloud you are working in and storing data in that matters. In many regards, this step could envelop the step below, “1 copy external,” but in respect to the principle, it serves us here to keep it a separate consideration.
Should there be a cloud-wide compromise or data loss event of the cloud where your primary data lives, your data would still be available to you by following the rule. Without doing so, you’ve lost access to your data (or even lost your data permanently), with an impact that has a massive potential for business disruption and costs (as in the case of Maersk).
1 Copy external
Formerly the "1 off-site storage copy," this still applies for the same reasons as it did in the past: You don’t want to store all of your data in the same exact location, and whether all are aware or not, the cloud is located in physical data centers.
From the on-premises days, this meant literally having a copy of disks and/or tapes in a different location from your business in case someone, something, or some event with the power to destroy the building did so. Let’s call this the “in case of fire” step.
In cloud computing, this means having a backup copy outside the cloud of the production environment and outside the administrative domain of the other backup. Remember, the cloud is ‘just’ physical data centers, so by working in the cloud, the centers you are storing your data in are of real importance to the data.
What if the data center of the cloud you are working in is also the same data center that your backup cloud data is stored in? Should there be a data loss event at that center, all of your data would be at risk from that event. That’s bad.
Use case: What would this look like in real life?
If, for example, you are working on a Microsoft Word document and you save it to OneDrive that has OneDrive Backup turned on, you’re totally protected, because it says “backup,” right? This is an example where the 3-2-1 principle still helps shed light on modern data protection in the cloud.
By following the 3-2-1 rule above, one can deduct that this example isn’t backup (but neither is a lot of what SaaS providers offer as ‘backup’) because true backup requires a logical infrastructure separate from the primary data.
As the “in case of fire” step requires, you must have one copy outside of the administrative domain. By working in and backing up OneDrive data to Microsoft’s cloud services, the data remains in the same administrative domain.
What if something were to happen to Microsoft servers? You’d lose access to your primary data and the copies “backed up” since they all relied on the same cloud.
What’s even worse is that since the backup is configured by “you” (i.e., the admin), a compromise of your account can unconfigure it, too. So, a simple case of ransomware could completely and automatically disable or work around such in-service protections—even leading to immediate backup data deletion.
Keepit, on the other hand – aside from being separate (and therefore unlikely to be compromised at the same time by the same mechanism), as a dedicated backup solution – will actually protect even the administrator from quickly or immediately deleting backup data.
In this respect, Keepit offers some of the most desirable features of “the tape in an off-site vault” in a modern cloud service solution.
Here’s how to use the 3-2-1 backup rule to ensure you’re covered: Vendor-independent cloud
If you’re interested in further reading, check out our e-Guide on SaaS data security for a thorough look into leading SaaS data security methodologies and how companies can raise the bar for their data protection in the cloud era.
Convinced you need backup, but want to know more about data protection and management for your particular SaaS application, then explore how Keepit offers cloud data backup coverage for the main SaaS applications.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/ai-adoption-control-gap/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-06-30T10:01:07+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

The illusion of control: What 300 IT leaders told us about adopting AI
AI is everywhere right now. Open a browser, open a Microsoft product, sit in any board meeting — it's the only thing anyone wants to talk about. So, when we sponsored a survey of more than 300 senior IT decision-makers, I expected the numbers to show an industry moving fast.
They did. What surprised me was the confidence. Many organizations believe agentic AI is already under control, but recovery habits have barely changed. That is the gap: AI is accelerating, confidence is high, and the recovery muscle is not getting stronger at the same pace.
By agentic AI, I mean systems that do more than generate content. They can take actions, call tools, move through workflows, and change data. That is why governance and recovery matter so much.
The adoption-control gap
More than half of respondents (53%) said agentic AI is fully implemented across the organization, with another 40% running limited pilots or departmental rollouts.
Let's start with fully implemented. It should mean you have mapped and classified your data, know what enters AI tools, understand your AI footprint across connected services, trained the workforce, and built governance that keeps up. If those answers are soft, fully implemented is optimistic.
The pressure is real. Cisco found that 97% of CEOs plan to integrate AI into their operations, while only 1.7% of CIOs feel fully prepared. That distance between executive expectation and operational readiness is exactly where the illusion lives.
And it's not only the AI you chose, it's also the shadow AI you didn't. People bring their own tools, often without understanding where data goes. At a recent roundtable, one CISO told us his company may have around a thousand agents running, and they're no longer sure what all of them touch.
Now looking at control, confidence climbs again: 67% say IT and security have full control and clear governance over agentic AI. The remaining third say governance is still developing.
That should concern us more than comfort us. It’s also, weirdly, where it becomes more fun to be a CISO again. Policies on data classification, governance, and criticality suddenly matter to everyone, but a policy is worthless if it can't keep pace with change. The faster AI moves, the further static governance drifts from reality.
AI doesn't stay in one lane
AI refuses to stay where you put it. IT and operations lead at 78%, but cybersecurity and risk management is already second at 57%.
Every new workflow expands the surface area to govern. A single, confident claim of control gets harder with every tool, agent, and third-party connection.
Why the illusion is more dangerous now
AI raises risk on two fronts at once. Externally, the same superpowers we give developers are available to attackers. Reconnaissance that used to take time can now happen in seconds, and every connected system becomes part of your exposure.
Internally, AI helps good people make mistakes faster. A person can only do so much damage in a minute; an AI can do the equivalent before anyone notices. Give a carpenter a hammer and they build something beautiful. Give a child the same hammer and they'll build something too, while breaking a few things on the way.
It's brilliant at changing things and poor at rewinding them. Point an enthusiastic agent at your OneDrive to do something interesting, and you can create an irreversible change in seconds. We have seen mailbox clean-up agents send replies to emails more than a year old. The intention was good. The result was not.
The recovery gap should worry all of us
We ran a similar survey a year ago, before the AI conversation took over, focused on how often organizations test recovery plans, where the data showed that 1 out of 10 had not tested at least annually. This year, the Foundry survey found that only 1% rarely or never tested their disaster recovery plans.
Keepit’s Annual Data Report found that 9 out of 10 commercial and enterprise organizations performed bulk restores at least once in the previous year, supporting the findings in the Foundry survey.
With AI accelerating attacks and accidents, you'd expect more organizations to move toward monthly or weekly recovery testing. Instead, nothing moved. Our read is that teams are so absorbed in implementing AI that they have stopped exercising the muscle that saves them when something goes wrong — at precisely the moment the risk to their infrastructure is racing ahead at the speed of AI.
What teams are actually worried about
When we asked about disaster recovery in an agentic-AI environment, the biggest high-concern issue was lack of understanding of AI risks: 55% rated it a 9 or 10. No clear ownership or accountability followed at 47%.
Ownership matters. IT can own access, offboarding, billing, and the plumbing, but AI isn't like email. It can do too many things for accountability to stay obvious. The rule is simple: just because AI helped you do something doesn't mean you're not accountable.
What real control looks like
The illusion is fixable: Start with live data governance and classification and work with the people closest to the systems and data so policy becomes something they use, not something they ignore.
Stand up a center of excellence to choose tools, set guidelines, and own the governance framework. Make training mandatory, graduated, and continuous. No training, no AI access.
Treat recovery as a playbook, not an improvisation. Know your critical data, where it lives, how long you can survive without it, and the order in which systems come back. Decide that in calm, not in a crisis, and test more often than you used to.
Finally, build intentional control. You need an independent, immutable system of record you can roll back to. Scope control ensures agents reach only intended data. Make agents visible with auditable rights and build guardrails with full audit trails so you can always answer what changed and why.
The maturity gap is real — and it's the place to start
Only 28% of organizations rate their SaaS disaster recovery as optimized — automated, integrated, continuously improving. A combined 40% are still reactive or developing as AI raises the stakes. If you're in that 40%, you don't need to fix everything at once, but you do need to know which step is next.
The one thing to take away
Slow down, just a little: Don't deploy AI for the sake of AI. Decide the outcome, prove small wins, build advocates, and spread deliberately. Gartner predicts more than 40% of agentic AI projects will be cancelled by the end of 2027 because of cost, unclear value, or inadequate risk controls. Intentionality is how you stay out of that number.
Cost and dependency matter too. AI can look cheap in a pilot and expensive at scale. As teams rely on AI to draft, analyze, summarize, or automate, they also need a plan for working when AI is unavailable.
Above all, keep the human in the loop. We hire people for empathy and judgment — the things AI does not have. Control today is mostly an illusion. You earn the real thing through data governance, training, tested recovery, and intentional, auditable rollout.
Want to know where your organization sits on the recovery maturity curve? Keepit's disaster recovery maturity framework maps the five stages and what it takes to move up.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/ai-future/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-03-16T11:27:31+01:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

AI of the future: Holding the keys with agentic AI
When you think of AI, you probably don’t picture text-only models. You picture systems that can do things: take actions, make decisions, and change the state of your environment. That’s agentic AI. And agentic AI can be a lot like Hannibal Lecter — brilliant, helpful, and then, suddenly, a monster.
Action changes the risk profile. When software can act and not just advise or provide insights, the blast radius grows. Intelligence without reversibility is a risk multiplier. If you can’t roll it back, you don’t control it.
Treat agentic AI like a brilliant guest — welcome the help but hold on to the keys.
Three-part AI series recap
In our first AI blog, AI of today, we highlighted how AI raises capability while lowering day-to-day control, and that independent, immutable backup with point-in-time rollback is the foundation for staying in control.
In our second AI blog, AI of tomorrow, we zoomed in on AI inside backup and recovery, including what Model Context Protocol (MCP) enables: AI can interrogate systems of record you already control (instead of becoming a new data store), and evolve safely from human-driven inspection to human-in-the-loop automation.
This third post looks further ahead: what fully agentic AI could enable in SaaS data protection and how to get the speed without surrendering the non-negotiables of independence, immutability, and testable rollback.
First, what is agentic AI?
The term agentic comes from the word agency — the ability to act on behalf of. Agentic AI pursues goals by calling tools/APIs and then planning and executing multi-step workflows with minimal (or no) human intervention.
In content domains, it drafts and sends. In operations, it changes state: archives, moves, deletes, grants access, schedules jobs, and initiates restores. The difference from generative AI is one word: action.
The upside is obvious: 24/7 response, coordinated multi-step execution, faster time from intent to outcome. The downside is just as clear: If an agent gets it wrong, it can get a lot wrong, very quickly. That’s why we don’t ‘trust the genius’ and just release it; we restrict it. Immutability and rollback are the glass wall between brilliance and harm.
From insights to actions: The progression of AI’s ability to act
The arc is simple:
Tier 1: human-driven inspection → Tier 2: human-in-the-loop automation → Tier 3: fully agentic actions.
Most organizations live between tiers 1 and 2 today. Tier 3 is the destination, and the only responsible path is to extend (not weaken) your control model.
Simply put, the higher tier you go, the bigger the blast radius, and the more vital it is that you can prove what happened and undo it precisely and swiftly.
Autonomy is the next interface, control is the differentiator
Agentic AI is the next interface layer for work. Not a feature. Not a chatbot. It’s a new way of operating where intent turns into action with minimal friction. That’s why it feels inevitable: Every team wants the speed, the coverage, and the ‘always on’ execution.
But here’s the reality: In the age of agents, the competitive advantage won’t come from who has the smartest model; it’ll come from who can govern change without slowing down.
Agentic AI doesn’t just make progress faster, it also makes mistakes faster, too. The winners won’t be the organizations that pretend mistakes won’t happen, they’ll be the ones that can:
Move fast → prove what happened → undo it precisely and quickly.
Control isn’t a brake, it’s what lets you accelerate safely.
What agentic AI could enable in SaaS data protection
Within tight boundaries, agentic AI could help teams respond faster and with more consistency, for example by:
- Proposing restore plans across multiple SaaS apps (including sequencing and preflight checks) based on a known-good point in time.
- Quarantining suspected blast zones during an incident (e.g., freezing a scoped workspace or revoking specific tokens) while kicking off recovery runbooks.
- Running continuous restore tests and reporting whether RPO/RTO targets are actually met in practice — not just on paper.
- Assembling audit evidence packs (what changed, who did it, when, and why) and mapping them to compliance requirements.
The common thread: Actions should be explainable, bounded, and anchored in a trustworthy history you control.
Blast radius: Why rollback is non-negotiable
Yes, agentic AI changes state — that’s the point. But the same power that accelerates execution can also widen the blast radius if something goes wrong. Without rollback, bad decisions become durable decisions.
Typical failure modes to plan for:
- Scope creep through tools: a change intended for one workspace touches an entire tenant because a parameter was too broad.
- Hallucinated or stale parameters: the agent applies the wrong ID, scope, or timeframe and acts confidently.
- Prompt injection: the agent accepts malicious or malformed input and ‘helpfully’ executes it.
- Memory injection (MINJA): a form of indirect prompt injection where malicious instructions are hidden in data that the AI stores in its long-term memory (e.g., in a RAG database, user profile, or chat history).
- Policy drift: rules evolve quietly, producing slow, silent loss that surfaces weeks later.
- Identity mistakes: incorrect role or entitlement mapping leads to over-permissioned changes.
- Automation loops: one agent’s ‘fix’ triggers another agent’s response, amplifying an error across systems.
Bottom line: If an agent can act, it can also act wrong — confidently and at scale. Rollback is the locked door, and without it, Lecter walks out.
Rolling out agentic AI must-haves
To safely roll out agentic AI without giving up control, you need the same three keys: an immutable source of truth, auditable actions, and rollback.
In practice, that means:
Independent, immutable system of record
Agents should ground decisions in a vendor-independent, immutable history — not production snapshots or recycle bins. Every action must be traceable and reversible to a known-good state (or any point in time you can prove).
Least-privilege, scoped tools
Expose only the minimum, tightly scoped actions an agent needs (for example, staged change plans with scoped parameters). Default to read-only. Write actions are explicit, rare, logged, and reversible.
Approvals and guardrails
Codify policy as code, approval gates, and blast-radius limits. Practice with simulators and dry runs; keep a human in the loop for anything irreversible.
Full auditability
Log tool calls, parameters, and outcomes so you can explain what happened and why — to operations, security, and regulators. Evidence is operational integrity.
Reversibility by design
Every agentic path must terminate in a restorable state anchored in backup history. Rollback isn’t an afterthought; it’s the safety net that makes automation safe to scale.
Point-in-time truth sets you free to innovate:
- Start with bounded scopes and a defined rollback point.
- Expand only when outcomes are repeatable and evidence is clean.
- Treat rollback as the condition for speed, not the consequence of failure.
Welcome the genius, keep the keys.
Agentic AI doesn’t have to be chaotic, but it does have to be contained. When you have a trustworthy, immutable source of truth and rollback, you can take bigger swings and learn faster without losing control. And if it goes wrong, it’s not a catastrophe; it’s a reversal.
Rollback turns risky autonomy into an advantage.
Rollback isn’t just protection, it’s what makes experimentation responsible. Agentic AI will be a force multiplier if every action can be explained, bounded, and rolled back. That’s how you get speed and safety at once.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/ai-today/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-02-11T14:32:36+01:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

AI of today: Power, drift, and the discipline to stay in control
Artificial intelligence is everywhere in today’s business conversations, and the promises are big: true transformation on a scale we have never seen as humans. The current reality is not that.
Today, when evaluating the real use and benefits of AI, it’s mostly about automation and augmentation, resulting in two significant challenges for most companies:
1. Trying to control their users in how they use AI at will (with lots of corporate data ending up in the public domain)
2. Trying to gain enough operational control so they can implement and adopt AI where it really transforms the company’s trajectory.
The lack of controls is bringing a lot of initiatives to a screeching halt. Yes, there's a lot of positive movement because of AI, but we’re also adding — at an alarming rate — to the illusion that we’re more productive, more innovative. Are we, and at what cost?
We were told that AI would simplify operations, automate the tedious, and free teams to focus on strategy. Some of that is happening. But the reality most leaders are living is more complicated: more systems, more data moving to more places, a security landscape that feels far less secure than it did two years ago, and less obvious control over data and users.
That tension — extraordinary capability paired with operational complexity — is the story of AI today. The question isn’t whether AI creates value. It does. The question is how to capture that value sustainably, with guardrails that let us move fast without losing our footing — without letting go of control. Because if you can’t control your data, you don’t own it.
Our position is simple: AI makes change cheap at the surface — keeping control of your data makes change safe. Independent, immutable backup and disciplined recovery are how you keep that control.
AI reality check — more capability, less control
The story that AI would neatly replace workflows has given way to a more complicated reality: Automation and augmentation are landing, but governance hasn’t caught up. Users experiment across tools with most of them not authorized by the company (shadow IT). Sensitive content travels to places it shouldn’t. Security teams absorb new surfaces, while executives ask, reasonably, “Are we more secure today than yesterday?”
Shadow usage adds pressure. Employees paste sensitive content into external tools, export conversation logs, or replicate data to “just test something.” None of this is malicious, but it erodes governance. If you don’t know where your data went, you can’t control how it’s used — or recover it cleanly when something breaks.
So, are you more secure today than yesterday? Right now, the honest answer is this: not yet. Risk and costs are rising because control is uneven — or non-existent — especially when AI systems (and the humans using them) can change, move, or delete data at scale.
What matters most — behavior, not model debates
You can build AI on deterministic/statistical components or on generative models. That matters for predictability, but what matters most for SaaS data protection is behavior:
- Non-agentic uses analyze, classify, or advise. They don’t take actions; the blast radius is small.
- Agentic uses take actions through tools or APIs — archiving, moving, or deleting content. The blast radius is larger because the system is allowed to change things. “If a person can do it, a computer can do it” thinking leads to AI controlling AI, and without clear immutable guard rails, it’s a recipe for disaster.
Put plainly: The more freedom an AI system has to change data, the greater the potential damage if it goes wrong — so approvals, logging, and rollback must be in place. To automate actions and insights broadly, you need to be able to make changes reversible; you need instant, granular access to your complete backup data (with high data fidelity).
From surprises to control: Design for reversibility
The core risk isn’t that models evolve. It’s that organizations give up control when decisions and data flows are mediated by third-party AI tools. You gain capability, but you lose sovereignty and clarity on where data went, who accessed it, and how to unwind unintended changes. Compliance and accountability don’t disappear because an agent acted in an unexpected way.
You won’t be able to eliminate surprises in this journey, but a key safety measure and ongoing decision point is considering whether you make them reversible — and that is across the whole landscape.
Keepit is focused on just a part of the overall ecosystem, but it’s an important part considering the ongoing adoption of SaaS to achieve business outcomes. With SaaS backup solutions, immutability is an absolute non-negotiable core capability to deliver a reliable data protection service.
We believe the same is going to be true for agents. They have to be immutable to retain control. The immutability component with Keepit SaaS backup has shown that it’s the key thing that allows our customers to effectively deal with ransomware. Control is a key hypothesis to be vetted but without it, how do you get “control over AI?”
Here’s how:
- Keep independent, immutable copies of critical SaaS data across tenants and workloads.
- Maintain point-in-time truth you can restore to — quickly and precisely.
- Version and log the things that shape automated behavior (policies, prompts, and jobs) so you can explain a change and roll it back with confidence.
If you can’t roll it back, you don’t control it.
Staying in control: Recovery as a responsibility
As AI adoption grows, many incidents won’t be malicious — they’ll be unintentional consequences: a misclassification that moves content, an automated job that wipes a workspace, a policy that over-archives. Staying in control means being able to put things back accurately:
- What comes back (which sites, channels, mailboxes, records)?
- From when (the “last known good” that aligns to the event)?
- In what order (for example, identity and access configurations before collaboration data)?
- With what approvals (bounded automation with a human in the loop)?
This only works when you have access to the full corpus of organizational data — not just production snapshots or recycle bins as that’s always just the “current” picture and just a moment in time (the now).
Relying on recycle bins is not a backup strategy; for AI resilience, you need independent, immutable copies that allow precise rollback to a last known good state (or any state that you have a need for).
Unlike production data, it’s your corporate memory.
Architecture first: Independence and predictable economics
If you want reliable outcomes, to use data at will, and rapid recovery, you need access to the full breadth of organizational data — backups, archives, historical states, and change metadata become strategic assets. They let you detect anomalies, answer governance questions, and restore “last known good” states for both data and configurations.
Two principles matter here:
- Independence. Keep durable copies of critical data in an independent, immutable store. In cloud data, that means placing backup data in infrastructure that is separate from the production SaaS provider. This separation reduces correlated risk (ransomware, outages, accidental mass deletes) and provides a trustworthy baseline for audit and recovery.
- Predictable economics. Public cloud prices and data volumes can rise faster than budgets. Choose a third-party backup that keeps data always hot and directly accessible 24/7 — with effectively unlimited retention — so you avoid rehydration penalties, tier-hopping, and surprise retrieval costs. Treat storage as a stable, immutable foundation. That way, growth is planned — not surprising.
Data is the asset; control is the moat.
Data is the asset; control is the moat. Independent, immutable architecture is how you keep that control and make the asset safely and cost-effectively available for recovery, audit, and analytics.
A note on security in the age of AI
Has AI made the world more secure? The answer is no. Security budgets have increased YoY for the last 10 years and lots of great innovation and adoption of new tooling has taken place. The reality is in 2025, we’re likely to be the least secure we’ve ever been — both as individuals and as companies and entities. What it has done is that it has significantly increased complexity and scale of the problems.
Attackers get new tools; defenders inherit new surfaces. But disciplined architecture — independent (air-gapped), immutable data storage — lets security posture improve alongside capability. The goal isn’t absolute prevention; it’s cyber resilience. Detect fast, investigate thoroughly, and recover with confidence. What else can you do right now?
Pragmatism over platitudes
AI has made it easy to move and modify data — and just as easy to lose sight of where it went and who touched it. The way to harness AI isn’t wishful thinking or indiscriminate rollout; it’s retaining control to solve identified and defined problems that matter to the outcomes of a business or individual. Keep independent, immutable copies of your data, so you always have a trustworthy source of truth.
Keep sovereignty by knowing what is stored and what has left your environment — and when. Keep responsibility with evidence: auditable histories that show why a change happened and how to reverse it.
Do the simple, durable things. Store data independently, make recovery precise and fast, and permit automation where the blast radius is bounded. If you can always find your data, prove what happened, and put it back, you haven’t given up control — you’ve made AI safer to scale.
This blog is part one of a three-part series on AI. The next release will be focused on AI of tomorrow, and the third blog will cover AI of the future.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/ai-tomorrow/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-02-11T14:33:45+01:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

AI of tomorrow: What MCP enables for SaaS backup and recoveryÂ
In our first post of a three-part AI series, we showed that control over your data is vital, especially in the present context of rampant AI deployment. The key message was this: You don’t own your data if you can’t control it, and you don’t control your data if you can’t roll it back.
That’s the state of AI on the broadest scale. Narrowing the lens to AI in data protection — how AI is beginning to show up in backup and recovery — this blog covers Model Context Protocol (MCP) and what we’re building at Keepit as an AI integration using MCP to enable AI for backup and recovery while preserving control, data sovereignty, and resilience.
As the second post in the series, this one focuses on the practical “today and near-term” reality: what AI can reasonably do for backup and recovery now, and how MCP makes that possible without copying data into models you don’t control. In the third and final post, we’ll look further ahead at what fully agentic AI could enable.
What is Model Context Protocol (MCP)?
Model Context Protocol (MCP) lets AI apps and agents call approved external tools, resources, and prompts in a standardized, auditable way. Rather than copying enterprise data into a public model, MCP invokes tools to fetch facts (metadata, read-only) from systems you already control. Inputs and outputs can be logged, reviewed, and repeated.
In our case, AI asks the tools, the tools call Keepit’s APIs, and answers come from immutable backups — no new data store. We’ll explain the wiring below.
From AI everywhere to AI for backup and recovery
Across organizations, AI now assists with writing, coding, analysis, and more. Backup and recovery is a different domain with a tighter mandate: know what’s protected, explain what changed, prove it with evidence, and restore the right data from the right point in time, no matter what — all while knowing where your data has been. If actions are taken, they must be bounded and reversible. Backup is, and should be, your impenetrable last line of defense ensuring that your data stays your data.
In this domain, the role of AI is not to become a new data store. It’s to interrogate systems of record you already control and to present answers and summaries quickly and consistently, in ways you can audit and repeat.
What “AI for backup” can reasonably do today — and how it evolves
To keep this grounded, let’s think in three tiers of automation that build on one another, with each step bringing new capabilities and AI advancement.
Tier 1: Human-driven inspection
AI helps people see and explain what’s happening, but humans decide and make changes. Typical outcomes include:
- A current picture of protection status across services and tenants.
- Audit summaries (who/what/when/why).
- Anomaly triage with likely causes.
- Guided reasoning on what to restore, from when, and in what order.
Keepit-specific: our AI integration (using MCP under the hood) exposes read-only capabilities across connectors and their health, jobs and snapshots, audit logs, and anomaly signals. Admins can ask these questions against independent, immutable, always-hot backups.
Tier 2: Human-in-the-loop automation (HITL)
Think of the Iron Man suit: there’s still a person inside, but the system amplifies what they can do. AI drafts compliance reports, assembles evidence packs, proposes restore plans with preflight checks, and recommends retention and hygiene actions at super speed — but all requiring explicit approval. Every step is logged, reversible, and bounded by policy.
Keepit-specific: this is where skills shine — plain-text workflows that standardize how jobs are analyzed, how quarterly audit reports are built (for example, GDPR mapping), and how account health is summarized, while the AI integration fetches the facts from systems you control.
Tier 3: Fully agentic actions (the future)
Agents act within tight boundaries: initiate restores, quarantine suspect areas, roll back to last-known-good across workloads — without a person in the loop. This tier demands rigorous guardrails (policy-as-code, approval gates, blast-radius limits, simulators and dry runs, full observability) and guaranteed reversibility grounded in immutable backups.
We’ll explore what becomes possible — and how to do it without sacrificing independence, immutability, or rollback — in the next blog of the series, AI of the future.
Across all tiers, the principle from the first blog holds: Data stays in systems you control; answers and actions remain explainable and reversible. The key to safely deploying AI at any level is this: If you can’t roll it back, you don’t control it.
One way to wire this up
We’ve utilized MCP as a way for AI apps and agents to call specific tools — so that businesses can avoid the risks associated with copying enterprise data into a model where they can’t control their data, among other things.
In Keepit’s AI integration, MCP tools sit in front of Keepit’s API surface — more than 200 endpoints across inventory, connector health, job history, snapshot ranges, audit logs, and anomaly signals. The integration gives AI clients a consistent way to use those APIs to interact with backup metadata.
The authoritative source of truth remains in our independent, immutable backups. You never give up control over your data; the AI client calls tools to fetch facts and present them in a read-only format. At a high level, a request flows like this:
AI client ↔ Keepit AI integration (MCP) ↔ Keepit APIs ↔ backup metadata
The client interprets a question, selects a tool, the tool hits the relevant API or APIs, and the result comes back in a structured, explainable format. You can mix tool calls with prompts: Tools do the heavy lifting; prompts shape how results are summarized.
For example, you can use an MCP-enabled Microsoft tenant, then combine it with Keepit’s AI integration via MCP, and use a Salesforce MCP — operating across these sources without moving data into the model.
What Keepit's MCP-based AI integration enables today
Our initial surface is read-only by design. It focuses on low-risk, high-value queries admins already ask, such as:
- Reviewing connector posture and highlighting unhealthy states with likely root causes to check (for example, misconfiguration).
- Inspecting jobs and snapshot ranges to explain recent failures.
- Pulling scoped audit logs and assembling summaries suitable for governance stakeholders.
To make that easier, we’ve defined a set of prompts available in our AI integration preview program, including, but not limited to:
Estate overview and health
- Totals and inventory: Count all connectors, list their GUIDs, and show each connector’s current health.
- Snapshot freshness: Highlight connectors with latest snapshot older than 24 hours; also show latest snapshot timestamp and “hours ago,” sorted by staleness.
Audit and compliance
- Broad review: Pull prior 90 days (P90D) of audit logs; summarize by action type, actor, and failures; highlight spikes and unusual actors.
Executive and periodic reports
- Quarterly compliance: Summarize protected connectors, worst snapshot staleness, job failure trend, and notable audit events.
Taken together, using our MCP-based AI integration against the API surface makes common admin tasks faster, safer, and easier to audit:
- Faster analysis of backup statistics — connectors, workloads, job success and failure, snapshot ranges.
- Easier summarization of audit logs — who/what/when/why synthesized into executive summaries and action lists.
- Rapid analysis of anomaly detection output — explain suspicious bursts of deletes, encryptions, or permission changes.
- Better health and status assessment — surface unhealthy connectors, likely causes, and recommended checks.
From prompts to procedures: skills
Some MCP-aware clients now support “skills” — plain-text workflow descriptions that group and describe tasks so you can do more complex things than ad-hoc prompts. They’re useful even without MCP (defaults include generating .doc, .pdf, and .ppt files), and with MCP they can orchestrate tool calls as part of the flow.
We’re drafting Keepit-specific skills for job history analysis, compliance-audit logs, and account health. Under the hood, a skill is a simple text file: a short overview, a handful of keywords, and then a detailed workflow that spells out time periods, frameworks, classification rules, and expected outputs.
When you run a skill, the client uses Keepit’s AI integration with MCP to fetch tenant context (for example, accounts and deployed connectors), then follows the workflow. A compliance-audit log skill, for instance, can assemble a quarterly GDPR audit report for a Keepit tenant with scope and methodology, event categorization, mapping to relevant articles, and concrete recommendations — producing evidence legal and compliance teams can review and keep.
When we eventually enable actions (for example, restore workflows), they will be bounded, approved, auditable, and reversible. Until then, inspection and explanation have already moved the needle without expanding the blast radius.
Carrying forward the control theme
Nothing here replaces the fundamentals from blog one, it operationalizes them for AI in backup and recovery:
- Independence: Queries hit a vendor-neutral backup, outside production’s blast radius.
- Immutability: Results are grounded in tamper-proof history and point-in-time truth.
- Rollback: Insights point directly to exactly what to restore and from which point in time.
- Auditability: Tool calls, parameters, and outputs are loggable and reviewable, so you can explain and defend decisions.
The outcome is straightforward: AI helps you move faster without giving up the ability to explain and reverse changes. Our AI integration means you know where your data goes and has been stored, helping ensure digital and data sovereignty.
What to expect next for Keepit AI integration and MCP
Our AI integration is a practical way to let AI participate in backup and recovery without moving data or giving up control. We’ll expand the tool coverage and skill library where admins and customer insight see the most value. Any move into actions will retain the same discipline: guardrails, approvals, and easy rollback.
In the third and final blog of this AI series, we’ll explore what becomes possible next as AI matures in data protection — and how to pursue it without compromising control, independence, or the ability to roll back changes.
For more information on our AI preview program for existing customers (or to join), visit the Keepit AI preview program.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/air-gapping-for-backup-data-resilience/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:12:58+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Ransomware resilience: Why air gapping is your best defense
First, why is ransomware protection such a critical need?
Put simply, ransomware protection is critical because:
- Your data is vital to your business,
- Maintaining control of and access to your data is legally mandated to be compliant with directives such as NIS2, GDPR, and others,
- Ransomware attacks are prevalent, so much so that it’s really become a matter of when you’ll experience an attack rather than if you will.
From a risk assessment standpoint, looking at the importance of data as well as the chance of experiencing ransomware, it’s quite clear that it’s a high-risk scenario. Not only is ransomware (and subsequent data loss) very likely to happen, it’s also very likely to have very serious impacts to your business.
Considering the current levels of cyber resilience against ransomware and the many data protection gaps to be filled — especially in small- to mid-sized companies — ransomware protection should be top of the list.
According to a 2023 ransomware preparedness Enterprise Strategy Group (ESG) report, Lighting the Way to Readiness and Mitigation, only 16% of organizations struck by a ransomware attack were able to recover 100% of their data.
ESG also finds that data recovery post ransomware was lacking, saying, “Unfortunately, the current reality is bleak as only one in seven report they were able to fully restore their data after a successful ransomware attack. This highlights the need to reengineer recovery processes for ransomware attacks.”
This missing coverage found in most of the companies surveyed means recovery to a production-like state is impossible with their current data protection setup. Considering that data is the lifeblood of our digital economy, it's fundamental to protect this data for business to carry on as usual.
When ransomware strikes and is effective, the main goal is to recover data and minimize losses. This is because data losses not only lead to non-compliance but also pose a risk of losing crucial business transactions.
2023 Ransomware Preparedness: Lighting the Way to Readiness and Mitigation
So, when disaster strikes, what's the most effective way to protect your data so you can minimize losses and expedite the data recovery process? Air gapping.
What is air gapping and why is it the ultimate in data protection?
Air gapping is a security measure that physically or electronically isolates a computer, network, or backup storage system from external, untrusted networks. The term "air gap" signifies a complete separation between the secured environment and the outside world, making it virtually impossible for digital threats, like malware and ransomware, to infiltrate the protected system.
For backup, this air gap is the vital step of keeping data copies on a logically separate infrastructure from the primary dataset, which is more commonly known as a logical air gap, and from where we derive the definition of true backup. Learn more about true backup.
The significance of air gapping in data protection lies in its unmatched level of security:
- Absolute protection: Air gapped systems are impervious to online threats, offering the highest level of data protection. Even the most sophisticated ransomware attacks cannot compromise a system that has been effectively air gapped.
- Preservation of data integrity: It ensures data integrity, as data stored within the air-gapped environment remains unaltered and uncorrupted.
So, how do we understand air gapping most simply? According to Wikipedia, “It means a computer or network has no network interface controllers connected to other networks, with a physical or conceptual air gap, analogous to the air gap used in plumbing to maintain water quality.”
Just like how water from your sink can’t flow back into your faucet to contaminate your clean water, air-gapped networks don’t let malware, ransomware, or otherwise corrupted data flow into your backup data: It’s simply not possible.
Physical air gap for SaaS data
In the faucet example, there’s clearly a physical separation that preserves the health of your water since your tap isn’t submerged in your sink. And while you can have an equivalent physical separation of backup data, this approach is resource demanding, expensive to maintain, and typically not agile enough to meet today’s demands for IT efficiency and speed. Why is that?
In order to keep backups offline, disconnected from any networks, you’d need to transfer data manually every single time you wanted a snapshot. This is costly hardware-wise and resource-wise, especially if you need to keep up-to-date backups — which you probably do for many reasons, not least of all compliance.
As businesses utilize more and more SaaS applications (organizations use an average of 371 SaaS apps), the costs and complexity to protect all of the SaaS data generated grows, too. For the absolute most business-critical data, a physical air gap may be worth the high cost to maintain, but surely not for tens or hundreds of SaaS apps. Imagine if you had to manually move data to a physical air gap twice a day for every single application to have updated backup copies from all your applications.
So, the question is how can you get top-tier data protection in the cloud that’s as secure as a physical air gap but much more agile and cost efficient? Well, we mentioned it above, and that’s the logical air gap.
Understanding the logical air gap: Efficiently countering ransomware threats
At its core, the logical air gap involves the use of advanced digital measures to segregate and protect network-connected digital assets. Through a combination of encryption, hashing algorithms, and role-based access controls, it creates a secure barrier around sensitive data, much like a physical gap.
But unlike its physical counterpart, the logical air gap doesn't rely on physical isolation, it leverages intricate digital processes to render data incomprehensible and virtually impervious to unauthorized access, theft, or modification. The result is data that’s kept just as securely but with the significant added benefits of agility and efficiency because it’s kept online in a logically separate cloud infrastructure.
It’s really the best of both worlds: Top-tier security paired with modern accessibility, efficiency, and speed.
What are some key features employed in air gapping?
Encryption as a shield:
The heart of the logical air gap's defense lies in encryption. By converting data into an unreadable format that requires a decryption key for access, even if ransomware manages to infiltrate the system, it’s met with a cryptographic barrier. This renders the encrypted data useless to unauthorized parties, thwarting the primary objective of ransomware attacks.
Hashing for data integrity:
Hashing functions add an extra layer of protection by generating unique identifiers (hashes) for each piece of data. Any alteration to the data results in a change in the hash, which allows for the verification of data integrity based on these changes. This then provides safeguarding against ransomware silently manipulating files without detection.
Detection is an important part of being ransomware resilient, and so you or your data protection vendor needs to have this ability. Read about Keepit’s data monitoring dashboard.
Role-Based Access Controls:
Through meticulous access management, the logical air gap ensures that only authorized personnel have the requisite permissions to interact with sensitive data. This minimizes the attack surface for ransomware, limiting its ability to propagate and encrypt critical information.
Highlighting the lack of air-gapping adoption:
Surprisingly, despite its effectiveness, air gapping is not as widely adopted as it ought to be given its effectiveness in protecting data. In the 2023 Ransomware Preparedness report by ESG, it can be seen that “slightly more than one in four (27%) organizations have deployed it at this point.”
Altogether, a staggering 67% of organizations do not currently implement air gapping as part of their data protection strategy. This leaves them potentially vulnerable to ransomware attacks and other cybersecurity threats as air gapping is a crucial data protection best practice. Not ignoring the importance of air gapping, more than one third of those surveyed were interested in investing in an air-gapped solution.
For those organizations utilizing air-gapping methodologies, here’s how they’re doing it, according to ESG:
And in the event of data loss due to a successful attack, here’s how companies plan to recover:
Looking at the data above, it’s a logical step to consider what you and your company would do if faced with recovering from a successful ransomware attack. How do you plan to recover data? How confident are you that your mission-critical data is well protected and can’t be corrupted by ransomware?
If you’re looking for inspiration on how to answer those questions, there’s a long-accepted data protection best practice we can turn to. Originating in the on-premises days (but is still very much relevant for cloud data protection) is a backup principle that puts air gapping at the forefront. Let’s look into it.
The 3-2-1 backup principle: A resilient strategy for data protection
The 3-2-1 backup principle stands as a cornerstone in data protection, offering a robust strategy for safeguarding critical data against many threats, including ransomware. This “321 rule” outlines a simple yet highly effective approach to data backup and recovery.
3 copies: The first part of the principle emphasizes the importance of keeping three copies of your data. This includes your primary data and two backup copies. This redundancy is crucial because it ensures that multiple copies of your data are available for recovery in case of data loss or corruption.
2 locations: The second part of the principle recommends that you store two of the backup copies on different devices within your local environment. This diversification, also called redundancy, protects against hardware failures, localized incidents, and even some software issues. The use of different devices/locations adds a layer of security and redundancy.
1 copy air gapped: The final part of the principle advocates for keeping one of the backup copies offsite or in a separate location. What’s that in cloud language though? That means your backup data resides outside of the administrative domain of your production data, such as a vendor-independent cloud, rather than within the same cloud. This would be the logically separate infrastructure.
However, most cloud backup solutions store your backed-up data on the same public cloud infrastructure that also hosts your production data, which potentially exposes your company to several risks. It’s akin to storing your spare car keys inside the car in case you lock yourself out.
It’s vital to find a backup solution that stores backed-up data on an independent cloud since the ‘one’ is your ultimate safety net. It ensures that in the event of a catastrophic failure, natural disaster, or even a ransomware attack that compromises your local environment, you have a separate and secure copy of your data to rely on for recovery. For an in-depth look, read our post about the 3-2-1 backup rule.
Embracing the logical air gap not only fortifies digital assets against ransomware but also positions organizations at the forefront of proactive cybersecurity measures.
Where we go from here
While air gapping presents the best defense against ransomware, its effectiveness is contingent on strategic implementation. Regularly updating encryption protocols, monitoring access logs, and conducting thorough security audits are integral components of maintaining the integrity of this defense mechanism.
If you’re interested in taking the next step toward protecting your SaaS data, get a demo on how Keepit can play a vital role in creating a robust, cyber resilience data protection system.
Learn more about air gapping and other protective measures you can employ to mitigate your ransomware risk with our on-demand webinar co-hosted with Enterprise Strategy Group.
This post is part two of a five-part series on ransomware resilience and the role backups play in the protection against ransomware — read part one: Why backups are key ransomware targets. Check back soon to catch the third installment, which will cover the importance of immutability in SaaS data protection.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/anatomy-of-recovery/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-01-20T14:17:13+01:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

The anatomy of recovery: Why testing is the heart of business resilience
Disaster recovery isn’t a one-time task—it’s an ongoing commitment. Mounting cyber threats, hybrid attacks, and strict regulatory oversight means recovery planning is no longer optional. It's the foundation for business resilience.
Disasters are broader than you think
Natural disasters still top the list of major disruptions—fires, floods, earthquakes, and storms can cripple operations by severing infrastructure. But increasingly, it's not just nature that brings systems down.
Recent examples show how vulnerable businesses are to the failure of underlying services. A severed submarine cable, a telecom outage disabling emergency lines, or a botched software update that halts transportation—these aren’t hypothetical scenarios. They’re modern-day reminders that global infrastructure dependencies are fragile and easily disrupted.
To mitigate this, organizations must identify their most vulnerable points and build redundancy into systems—both technically and operationally.
The silent threat: Human error
While cyberattacks and natural events make headlines, human error remains one of the leading causes of data loss. Misconfigured retention policies, accidental deletions, and administrative oversights continue to plague enterprises of all sizes. The most sophisticated IT environments are not immune.
Often mistakes aren’t discovered until it’s too late. And when data is lost, relying on SaaS vendors for recovery is a gamble. Native restore features may exist, but they’re typically limited, difficult to test, and not built to guarantee full-scale business continuity.
Having independent, regularly tested backups is the only reliable way to safeguard against the full range of human-induced incidents.
Culture is a security tool
Mistakes happen. What matters is how organizations respond. A mature security culture ensures that employees feel empowered to report issues promptly—without fear of blame. The worst-case scenario isn’t a mistake—it’s a mistake that goes unreported and escalates.
Security isn’t just about firewalls and patches. It’s about communication, education, and trust. Training must be real, relevant, and engaging. Employees should understand what phishing looks like in their specific business context. Developers should practice spotting malicious code. Security isn’t a one-size-fits-all effort; it’s a cultural investment.
When vendors fail
Cloud vendors aren’t perfect. History shows that even the largest players occasionally lose customer data due to bugs, misconfigurations, or internal errors. From lost security logs to deleted pension data, these incidents underscore a hard truth: shared responsibility doesn’t mean guaranteed protection.
Whether it's a coding bug deep within a service stack or a botched update affecting core systems, customers bear the brunt when data is lost—and they’re often powerless to recover without third-party backups. The only remedy is to assume failure is inevitable and prepare accordingly.
Rising risks: Shadow IT, AI, and supply chains
Security perimeters are dissolving. Shadow IT introduces unmanaged apps into corporate networks, often housing sensitive data unknown to IT teams. Employees, in a bid for productivity, may upload proprietary data into generative AI tools without realizing the risk.
Supply chains also present growing vulnerabilities. Software delivered through trusted channels can be compromised, as seen in high-profile breaches where malicious updates slipped past defenses undetected.
The antidote? Intelligent monitoring, rigorous classification, and a thorough understanding of where sensitive data resides.
The case for testing—and testing again
Every plan is theoretical until it is tested. Recovery strategies must be validated in real-world conditions—not just once, but regularly. Testing isn’t an inconvenience. It’s how businesses discover gaps before attackers do.
Regulations like DORA and NIS2 now demand evidence of effective, recurring testing. It’s not enough to have a plan on paper—organizations must prove their ability to recover. Fortunately, with the right tools and automation, testing can be simple, even mobile-friendly.
Modern disaster recovery must be as agile as DevOps. Recovery tests should be frequent, frictionless, and minimally disruptive.
Defining what matters most
You can’t protect everything. But you can protect what matters most. Effective disaster recovery begins with classification—identifying the systems, data, and applications that are most critical to business continuity.
With hundreds of SaaS applications in use across a typical enterprise, organizations must prioritize recovery based on business impact, not just IT ownership. Recovery isn't a single push-button event. It's a sequence. Knowing what to bring online first—whether it's payroll, CRM, or security tools—is key to minimizing downtime and revenue loss.
Ownership also matters. Risk needs to be assigned, not just acknowledged. When system and data owners are accountable, they’re more likely to engage in the planning process.
What good looks like
A robust recovery strategy includes:
- Clear classification of critical systems and data
- Prioritized recovery plans that reflect actual business dependencies
- Regular, automated testing of restore capabilities
- Tamper-proof, immutable backups in a separate, secure cloud
- Risk ownership embedded in every department
- Training programs that are engaging, continuous, and context-specific
Recovery is more than just technology. It’s culture, governance, and foresight.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/annual-data-report-2026/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-07-27T16:26:25+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-08-02

============================================================

Introducing the Keepit Annual Data Report 2026: Operational truths (and a few surprises)
If you’ve ever tried to understand “what’s really happening” in IT, you’ve probably noticed an odd phenomenon: the more opinions you collect, the less certain you become.
Surveys tell you what people remember. Interviews tell you what people believe. Panels tell you what people agree to say out loud. All of that can be valuable—just like weather forecasts are valuable. But neither forecasts nor opinions are the weather.
This year, we decided to look out the window.
That’s the simplest explanation for why we’re publishing the first-ever Keepit Annual Data Report: because we sit on a vantage point that’s rare in our industry. Keepit protects business-critical SaaS data every day, and that protection generates something quite powerful—observable operational data about backup and restore behavior.
In a time where content is prolific, citations are optional, and source material sometimes evaporates somewhere between the headline and the hyperlink, we think there’s real value in being a provider of fact. Not “fact” as in absolute truth about everyone everywhere—but fact as in: this is what we can actually observe, at scale, in real environments.
At Keepit, we pride ourselves on being a reliable, trusted provider, advisor, and partner to our customers. Publishing this report is an extension of that promise: fewer vibes, more verifiable signals.
Why an Annual Data Report—and why now?
Because resilience is finally being discussed the way it should have been all along: as an operational discipline.
Most organizations don’t fail because they lack tools. They fail because, when something goes wrong, the recovery path is unclear, untested, or too manual to execute under pressure. Backup is the seatbelt; recovery is the crash test.
And yet, most of what the industry “knows” about recovery maturity is built on what people say they do.
Our question was different: What do organizations actually do when they restore SaaS data? 
What file types do they restore? How often? When? At what scale? Does real-world behavior change when a major external event happens? 
Those answers aren’t found in a questionnaire. They’re found in the logs of real operations—carefully anonymized, aggregated, and interpreted.
Which brings us to the fun part.
How we built the Keepit Annual Data Report
Available data is a gold mine. But like most gold mines, it doesn’t come with neat little labels that say “dig deeper here.”
So our methodology starts with discipline:
- We used anonymized, real backup and restore telemetry from the Keepit platform.
- We analyzed restore operations, including job types and restore destinations, and how they vary over time.
- We looked at dataset observations, including backup size and file change ratios (because how data changes matters, just as much as how much data exists).
- We explored user behavior patterns—for example, how restore activity differs by organization size and by application or dataset category.
- And we examined whether external events (the kind that generate headlines and emergency meetings) actually change restore behavior.
Importantly: this is an observational report. We are not asking customers what they think is happening—we’re analyzing what can be seen in aggregate across real environments, while maintaining privacy and security throughout.
You’ll find the detailed methodology in the report itself. (And yes, we wrote it the way engineers write methodology sections: with enough clarity that someone could challenge it, and enough humility to admit what it doesn’t claim.)
Key learnings (and a couple of surprises)
The report is full of specifics, but here are a few headline takeaways to orient your reading.
1) Identity is a notable blind spot
Here’s one of the more striking signals: organizations test identity applications roughly four times less often than productivity applications.
This should raise concern. “Identity” is no longer just “IT plumbing”— it’s the control plane for your business. And yet, across the industry, identity recovery is often treated like an afterthought: assumed to be stable, assumed to be reversible, assumed to be “someone else’s problem.”
Not testing that you can recover your identity applications is risky. Because if identity can’t be recovered cleanly, you may end up with the most frustrating outcome of all: your productivity data is intact, but access to it (and to every SaaS system federated to that identity layer) is blocked, with no trustworthy tenant left to rebuild roles, policies, and relationships
If resilience is about restoring what matters most, identity should be high on the list.
2) “Enterprise maturity” isn’t reserved for enterprises
One of the strongest themes is that about 9 in 10 organizations in the enterprise/commercial segment show maturity signals strong enough to support larger-scale recovery practices.
That matters because it challenges an old narrative: that only the very largest organizations can operationalize resilience properly. The data indicates that many commercial-sized organizations (1,000-5,000 employees) already have the discipline and consistency to benefit from modern backup and recovery investments—perhaps more than they realize. While organizations of any size will experience a major lift in operational resilience, the commercial segment appears to have an unexpectedly high return on investment teed up and ready to reap.
3) Recovery is mostly everyday—and that’s the point
Another standout finding: is that recovery is rarely a Hollywood disaster. Most restores are practical, targeted, and urgent in the way “I need that file back now” is urgent.
That’s good news, actually. It suggests that for many organizations, restore is not a mythical button behind glass — it’s a tool they use. But it also raises a question: if day-to-day restore is common, are we learning enough from it to be ready for the day we need more than a single file?
4) Headline events don’t automatically change behavior
Here’s a surprise (though perhaps it shouldn’t be): big external events don’t necessarily lead to new restore habits.
Awareness is not the same as action. News can move priorities for a week; operations change more slowly. That gap — between what we know and what we practice — is where resilience programs either mature or quietly stall.
The report digs deeper into these patterns with breakdowns by organization size, application categories, timing, and geography. If you enjoy the moment when data meets intuition and politely clears its throat—this is your report.
What’s next: a blog series that goes deeper
This post is the “opening scene.” Over the coming weeks, we’ll publish follow-up posts that unpack specific findings—what they mean, why they matter, and what practical actions they suggest.
Here are some of the topics we’ll cover:
- The identity recovery blind spot — Why identity systems are tested far less, and why that’s risky
- Backup volumes aren’t exploding (yet): what incremental backup changes
- New vs. changed data: what file and byte change ratios reveal about your backup growth
- The commercial segment is ready for a resilience leap
- Recovery is the real test of backup — Why backup posture is meaningless without practiced restores
- Bulk restore readiness: what “9 in 10 enterprises” signals — A maturity model for recovery at scale
- Most incidents aren’t catastrophic: the rise of ‘small, urgent restores’ — Designing recovery for real life
- Granular vs bulk restore: when each matters
- Outages didn’t change restore behavior—here’s why
- Testing frequency: what you measure is what you can recover — A practical cadence for restore validation
If you want the full story (and the actual charts that keep engineers honest), download and read the Keepit Annual Data Report 2026. Then join us for the follow-ups — because the most interesting part of data isn’t the number.
It’s what the number makes you reconsider.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/anomaly-detection-dashboard/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-14T23:36:28+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Introducing anomaly detection: Visibility, control, and faster response in your backup data
At Keepit, we believe backup shouldn’t be passive. It should give you awareness and insight — not just after something happens, but while it's happening. That’s the thinking behind our newest feature: Anomaly Detection Dashboard.
Anomaly detection helps you identify unexpected changes in your backup data, so you can act fast — whether it’s due to a mistake, a misconfiguration, a malicious attack, or something else.
First, what is anomaly detection?
Anomaly detection monitors backup snapshots and alerts you when there’s a significant change in your data — like a sudden drop in volume or a large number of files added or modified.
Let’s say, for example, 30% of your tenant data disappears between snapshots, the system flags it. You’ll see exactly where the change occurred and when, so you can react quickly and investigate the cause.
This is especially useful when handling:
- Cyberattacks (e.g., encryption or mass deletion)
- Accidental or unauthorized data removal
- Unexpected configuration changes
- Sudden data growth or reorganization
It’s designed to help prevent major incidents — or at least minimize their impact — by giving you a clear signal that something’s different.
Why anomaly detection matters for SaaS data protection
Many customers already use third-party tools to analyze what's happening in their live environments. But they also want that level of insight in their backups — because backup is the last line of defense.
With anomaly detection, backup becomes more than storage. It becomes a source of truth and a key part of your security strategy. This visibility supports faster decision-making and more confident recovery.
Keepit’s Anomaly Detection Dashboard
While similar functionality exists in the market, what sets Keepit’s approach apart is the end-to-end flow. Anomaly detection is directly connected to our platform’s built-in investigation and recovery tools — so you can go from alert to resolution without leaving your dashboard.
Backup becomes more than storage. It becomes a source of truth and a key part of your security strategy.
From detection to recovery: a seamless workflow
Anomaly detection integrates directly with Keepit’s comparison and restore tools, giving you a complete flow from alert to resolution. When an anomaly is flagged, you can:
- Compare the snapshot with its previous version
- Drill down to see which folders or users were affected
- Restore data at the folder or file level
This built-in workflow supports faster incident response — making it easier to validate the anomaly, identify the root cause, and recover only what you need. Everything happens within the same platform, with no need to switch tools or dig through logs manually.
How anomaly detection works
The Anomaly Detection Dashboard shows monthly trends and highlights any anomalies detected across your backup snapshots.
Each anomaly includes:
- Date of detection
- Size change in gigabytes
- Percentage change
- Item count: the number of files added, modified, or removed
Anomalies are classified into one of the following three types:
- Added
- Modified
- Removed
These categories help you quickly understand whether the change looks like a normal update — or something more critical. For example, a “removed” anomaly might point to mass deletions, while “modified” could be a sign of encryption.
You can jump from any anomaly into a snapshot comparison, where you can:
- Filter changes by size or path
- Drill into specific folders or users
- Identify the exact files impacted
- Restore folders or individual files if needed
This lets you validate whether a change was expected — and if not, take action immediately.
What would a real anomaly detection incident look like?
Here’s a hypothetical, yet realistic, example:
Let’s say you detect a 57% data removal, representing 5.1 GB missing from a snapshot. You can trace that removal to a specific user account and folder (such as a OneDrive Documents directory). You find three folders were deleted — either by accident, or as part of a suspicious event.
From there, you can restore the data with one click — either at the folder level or file by file. Once restored, the incident is resolved, and your data is back and operational again.
That’s the flow: Detect → Investigate → Recover.
What to do when an anomaly is detected
When an anomaly is flagged, the first step is to investigate it using Keepit’s built-in snapshot comparison tool. From the Anomaly Overview section, you can click into the specific event and compare the snapshot where the anomaly occurred with the snapshot that came before it.
This allows you to:
- Browse affected folders and files
- See exactly what was added, deleted, or modified
- Understand the scope and significance of the change
If the anomaly is critical — such as large-scale deletion or suspicious modification — you can restore the most relevant backup version. Whether you need to bring back an entire folder or just a few files, you can act right away, all from within the same platform.
Alerts, integrations, and SIEM support
When an anomaly is detected, Keepit automatically sends an email alert to system admins. For organizations using SIEM or CIEM tools, anomalies are also logged in the audit log — giving you the option to parse and trigger workflows using your existing security infrastructure.
Future releases will expand support for dedicated anomaly types within audit logs, allowing even more granular integration and filtering.
Packaging, release date, and availability
Anomaly detection will be included in the Enterprise Unlimited and Governance Plus packages. The feature will be available in the 10.5 release, scheduled for May 11, 2025.
For most eligible customers, anomaly detection will be enabled automatically. If you have a custom package or are unsure about your configuration, our customer success team is ready to help.
Getting started
Once the feature is enabled, you’ll find anomaly detection in the monitoring dropdown of your Keepit dashboard. There, you can explore anomalies, compare snapshots, and restore any data affected by unexpected changes.
Anomaly detection gives you real-time visibility into your backup environment — so you're not just reacting to problems but staying ahead of them.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/are-you-prepared-for-a-ransomware-attack/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:34:16+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

79% of organizations had a ransomware attack in the past year. Are you prepared?
The frequency of ransomware attacks is increasing along with the costs to businesses. Having a plan to respond in the event of a ransomware attack is more important than ever.
IT research firm ESG conducted a ransomware study surveying 600 enterprise IT and cybersecurity professionals across North America and Western Europe. Here’s what they found:
- 79% of the organizations had a ransomware attack within the past year
- Every sixth company gets attacked by a ransomware weekly
- Every eighth company gets attacked by ransomware daily
What’s the impact of a ransomware attack?
When an organization suffers a ransomware attack, there are many negative consequences beyond the financial losses. According to the ESG study, victims of ransomware attacks suffered the following:
- 40% of the organizations reported a financial loss
- 50% reported data loss
- 32% reported reputational damage
- 39% reported a direct impact on employees, customers, and partners
- 30% reported compliance exposure
As an IT Manager or a cybersecurity leader, can you bear these consequences in the organization?
What’s the best ransomware recovery strategy?
Given the high frequency of these attacks, you need a recovery strategy to mitigate damage to your organization. A successful recovery strategy can help you recover data quickly to minimize the impact on operations.
ESG research recommends cloud backup as the best practice for cyber recovery. The survey also found that the best-prepared organizations are the ones that have a cloud backup solution.
How Keepit can play a role in your ransomware recovery strategy
If your organization is ready to get serious about protecting SaaS data and is looking for a solution, ESG recommends that you take a good look at Keepit.
Kerry Dolan
Senior IT Validation Analyst, ESG
Keepit offers an extremely simple, secure SaaS data protection solution that uses a proprietary object store to keep data protected and tamper-proof in its independent, redundant global data centers. With automatic snapshots, no backup scheduling is required, and retention is easy to configure and manage according to your compliance requirements.
Each daily snapshot is permanently preserved so that victims of ransomware can simply roll back to a point in time before the attack and restore their data in place.
Bottom line
With the high frequency of ransomware attacks, IT leaders should focus on protecting their organization’s mission-critical data and digital assets by preparing and practicing to recover it quickly and completely. ESG recommends cloud backup as the best practice for cyber recovery. Keepit helps you in the cloud backup strategy with a backup that is simple, secure, and fast.
Keepit backup is:
Cloud independent - With Keepit, data is stored in a vendor-neutral cloud instead of public platforms like AWS, making Keepit a true third-party backup.
Immutable - preserves your data permanently, even for data types that the source SaaS applications do not protect.
Leveraging innovative storage architecture - allows super-fast data restores and inspection while giving you predictable restore performance and a fixed storage cost.
To learn more about how Keepit secures data, read our security guide.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/azure-active-directory-renamed-entra-id/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T02:30:22+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Azure Active Directory renamed Microsoft Entra ID
What this Azure AD name change means and 6 reasons for backup
In the ever-evolving landscape of technology, we often witness transformations that impact the apps and services we rely on daily. One such transformation is happening today: Microsoft has just announced that Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) is now named Microsoft Entra ID.
While the name may be different, there are no changes to the actual product; Entra ID continues to be Microsoft’s identity and access management service that enables your employees access to external resources, such as Microsoft 365, the Azure portal, and thousands of other SaaS applications. The essence and value that Entra ID provides remains unchanged. Regardless of the name, it still needs to be backed up.
With the introduction of cloud computing, the edge of a network no longer exists, and the latest hacking techniques rely on compromising identity first. As a prime target for hackers, Azure AD — now Entra ID — sees 50 million password attacks per day, which amounted to attacks on almost 10% of the 550 million Entra ID users in 2022. According to Microsoft’s VP of Identity Security, Alex Weinert, Entra ID accounts are also 50 times more likely to be compromised than consumer Microsoft accounts.
What is Entra ID? And what’s the relationship between Entra ID and Microsoft 365?
Microsoft 365 uses Entra ID to manage user identities behind the scenes. Simply put, Entra ID is the brain to the Microsoft 365 body. It’s the control plane that allows access, gives orders, and makes sure Microsoft 365 runs well via policies and configurations.
Loss of access to Entra ID can result from a variety of mishaps, such as bad actors hacking your Entra ID and locking you out or an authorized user deleting a policy or admin accounts. If users can’t access their identities because their identities can’t get authorized in Entra ID, they’re not able to use their Microsoft 365 applications. If users can’t access anything, they can’t work, which grinds operations to a halt while the issue is addressed.
Do I need to back up Entra ID?
According to Microsoft, protecting identity systems such as Entra ID is the number one priority for any business — more important than protecting human life — as it ensures you and your users can maintain access to critical applications and systems.
Whether you’re an admin at a major company or launching a startup, protecting user identities is crucial to ensure business continuity. If anything messes up your Entra ID tenant configurations, you could lose access to important data and apps instantly.
What are the potential impacts of losing access to Entra ID
Recently, a company got locked out of all their Microsoft services due to faulty conditional access policies in Entra ID (formerly Azure AD). As a result, the admins were unable to log in to Microsoft and the unavailability of Microsoft portals prevented the company from registering a support ticket to report and resolve the issue. One can only imagine how long it took to resolve and get back to normal operation.
Here's another example of the importance of Entra ID: A Carlsbad company suffered losses of more than $500,000, endured three full days of downtime, and invested six months in rebuilding after a disgruntled former employee deleted more than 1200 of the company’s Microsoft 365 user accounts.
In April 2023, Microsoft detected attacks on hybrid AD environments too. In this example, a “nation-state attacker” entered a network, compromised on-prem AD, used that access to pivot to and compromise Azure AD (now Entra ID), and then deleted all of the target’s Azure resources. Currently, the threat primarily originates from nation states, but in the future, it could shift to criminal organizations and eventually to low-end script kiddies.
That's why it's important to have a backup plan ready just in case things go haywire.
What can and can’t be recovered in the Entra ID recycle bin?
Some objects are “soft deleted” and get put into the recycle bin. They include:
- Microsoft 365 groups
- App registrations
- User and guest accounts
Here's something important to know: When these cloud objects are soft deleted, they stay in the recycle bin for 30 days, but after that, they are 'hard deleted” and vanish forever as they are permanently and irreversibly deleted. No chance of getting them back.
For all the other objects, they undergo immediate 'hard deletion,' indicating that they bypass the recycle bin and can't be recovered natively. Microsoft shares that “hard-deleted items must be re-created and reconfigured. It is best to avoid unwanted hard deletions.” In other words, to maintain efficiency and business continuity, it’s advisable to steer clear of any unintended hard deletions if you don’t have a backup. Immediately hard-deleted objects include:
- Distribution groups
- Enterprise applications / Service principals
- Intune device policies
- Conditional access policies
- BitLocker recovery keys
- Security groups
Keep in mind that many Entra ID objects have intricate setups or unique connections with other systems, and unfortunately, the recycle bin doesn't capture all those details. This means if you accidentally delete or alter those objects, there's no way to recover them.
Oh, and don't forget, the recycle bin is only for deleted objects — it can't bring back an object to its previous state if you've made changes to it. Yikes. That means any change overwrites the object.
What are the risks of not backing up Entra ID?
While it's open to debate whether backing up Entra ID is universally applicable to every organization and situation, it’s a wise approach for most enterprises. We’ve collected a couple of compelling reasons why backing up Entra ID can benefit your organization:
1. Loss of security / configuration policies
Entra ID allows administrators to define and enforce various configurations, policies, and access controls. Not having a backup means the loss of these settings, which can result in inconsistencies, misconfigurations, and unauthorized access. It takes significant time and effort to recreate and reapply these configurations manually, leaving the environment exposed to potential security risks.
With a backup of Entra ID, organizations have more control over the restoration process as they can easily recover permanently deleted cloud objects like device configurations, security policies, and access controls in a fast and efficient way.
2. Limited recovery options
Entra ID provides native features for data recovery, such as recycle bin and soft delete options. However, these options have limitations, such as time-bound retention and the inability to restore specific attributes or configurations.
A proper backup of Entra ID ensures more comprehensive recovery options and greater control over the restoration process.
3. Failure to meet compliance requirements
Organizations are often subject to various regulatory requirements, such as GDPR or industry-specific regulations. Failure to have a backup of Entra ID can lead to non-compliance with data protection and privacy regulations, resulting in potential legal issues, financial penalties, and reputational damage.
A backup of Entra ID ensures continuous chain of custody and provenance of security policies. This allows organizations to prove to regulators exactly which policies were in place at any time and document changes and deviations, if any.
4. Data loss
Entra ID stores security policies, application settings, and other cloud-only configurations. If this data is lost due to accidental deletion, malicious activity, or system failure, it can lead to severe consequences, including user access issues, operational disruptions, and compliance violations.
If you have a backup before the incident, you can use it to easily recover your lost data and bring it back into your Entra ID environment right away.
5. User productivity impact
Without a backup, recovering security and device policies can be a difficult and time-consuming task. This process may restrict activity or even prevent users from logging in to apps.
Restoring security policies and configurations manually can result in significant downtime and decreased productivity for users who are unable to access the resources they need.
6. Microsoft system outages
If Entra ID experiences a prolonged outage or catastrophic failure, organizations without a backup will have limited options for recovery, leading to extended periods of system unavailability and business disruption.
No backup can prevent Microsoft from having a system outage: That’s simply a risk all organizations face. However, if you have a backup, you can use it to recover your data once the service outage is resolved.
Evaluate your need for Entra ID backup
If you're uncertain about the need to back up Entra ID for your organization, a helpful approach is to consider the potential risks associated with Entra ID data loss. Evaluate your comfort level with the level of risk involved to determine the best course of action.
We've created an Entra ID risk assessment sheet to help you gauge your exposure and risk tolerance. Use the assessment to determine your Entra ID backup requirements and the need for backup.
Download and create your own Entra ID security risk assessment here.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/backing-up-autodesk/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-07-15T09:58:20+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Keepit Backup and Recovery for Autodesk Forma
Autodesk Forma — formerly known as Autodesk Construction Cloud — has become a critical application for the Architecture, Engineering, and Construction (AEC) industry. It holds the drawings, RFIs, submittals, transmittals, issues logs, and cost data that keep projects moving. Lose access to that data, even briefly, and the impact is felt immediately on site.
Keepit is the first enterprise SaaS data protection platform to provide independent backup and recovery for Forma, making sure that all areas of your business can continue running, even when the worst happens.
Shared responsibility in Autodesk Forma
Like most SaaS platforms, Autodesk follows a shared responsibility model: It secures and operates the platform, manages infrastructure resilience, and replicates data between storage locations. But customers remain responsible for their own data — how it's retained, protected, and recoverable.
This means that while the SaaS provider keeps the platform running, customers carry responsibility for:
- Long-term data retention beyond the active subscription period
- Recovery from bulk permission changes, or misconfigured integrations
- Maintaining backup copies outside the vendor environment
- Meeting their own business continuity and disaster recovery requirements
When a platform incident occurs, native capabilities won’t be enough to keep your project up and running.
Why Autodesk Forma data needs independent backup
Forma is where project teams manage the information they cannot afford to lose. Drawings have version histories and issues logs track defects through to resolution. If any of this data becomes inaccessible — whether from a platform outage, accidental modification, or an infrastructure event upstream — project teams lose the reference they rely on to keep work moving.
At a broader level, it also acts as a compliance and audit record. For regulated construction firms, retained project documentation supports contractual obligations, audit readiness, and regulatory recordkeeping requirements. When records are incomplete or inaccessible, the consequences can extend well beyond operational delay.
Autodesk Forma provides a Deleted Items recovery area and preserves version history during an active subscription. But it does not offer point-in-time restore, customer-controlled backup retention policies, or long-term archive capability outside the platform. Recovery from a platform incident is managed on their timeline, not the customer's.
Keepit Backup and Recovery for Autodesk Forma
Keepit provides independent backup, storing project data entirely outside the SaaS providers' infrastructure.
Backing up Autodesk Forma with Keepit ensures:
- Independent protection: Backup data is stored on Keepit's own vendor-neutral cloud, separate from Autodesk's environment, securing business continuity
- Automated snapshots: Two snapshots per day by default, with configurable retention — no manual exports required
- Broad project coverage: Users, companies, projects, sheets and sheet versions, files and folder structures, file packages, issues with comments and attachments, issue settings, and transmittals
- Point-in-time reference: Each snapshot is a complete, time-indexed copy of your environment, accessible even during a platform outage
Keepit protects your most critical SaaS applications — in one platform
The Keepit platform delivers independent backup and recovery across the SaaS application ecosystem. From project management to your source code — to now Autodesk — Keepit offers you the last line of defense against data loss. Currently offering backup and recovery for 17 applications, the Keepit platform makes securing your SaaS data simple.
For construction organizations managing complex, multi-party projects in Autodesk Forma, Keepit helps close the gap between what Autodesk provides natively and what project and business continuity requires.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/backing-up-bamboohr/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-01-22T15:36:44+01:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Employee data is priceless â back it up with Keepit
Keepit is the first to offer an independent backup and recovery solution for BambooHR
Imagine not having access to your employees' files during an emergency or tax filings upon request from the authorities. HR systems contain employee and company data that is crucial for operations and compliance.
BambooHR is a widely used HR tool that contains employee management data and compliance documents. Keepit is the first to offer independent backup and recovery tailored for BambooHR — by backing up your sensitive and critical data, you’re making sure you always have access to important records when you need them the most.
Why should you back up BambooHR data?
Protecting your data in SaaS applications is ultimately your responsibility. This is important to remember when talking about HR systems like BambooHR that store crucial data for compliance audits and employee management.
Currently, BambooHR does not support point-in-time restores or versioned rollbacks of stored data. This means users can’t revert data to previous states. Additionally, you only have limited options to restore attachments in the system — they can’t be recovered through the user interface, and the process may require the help of their IT support.
Keepit Backup and Recovery for BambooHR is the first to keep your employee data immutable and secure — and to ensure you can access and recover the data effortlessly, in the state you need it.
Keepit Backup and Recovery for BambooHR
Keepit is now backing up BambooHR, adding one more critical SaaS application to its platform. With this addition — and Docusign, added last month — Keepit is centralizing backup and recovery capabilities for tools used in employee management, administration, and HR.
With Keepit’s solution, you have access to:
- Automated backups: You’ll be able to access comprehensive, automated backups of your BambooHR solution.
- Granular restore capabilities: You can quickly identify the correct BambooHR data to recover with Keepit’s smart search and previewer. You’ll be able to compare backup snapshots to identify records added, modified, or deleted over time, enabling precise recovery.
- Immutable and unlimited storage in Keepit’s vendor-neutral cloud: Your backup data is stored separately from your SaaS applications, ensuring business continuity.
Peace of mind — in one platform
This fall, Keepit has added coverage for multiple new applications to its portfolio. From identity access management applications like Okta to project management tools such as Jira and Confluence, IT teams can now back up and restore important files and data within the same, easy to use dashboard.
By centralizing your SaaS backup, you don’t just save time and money — you gain peace of mind knowing Keepit has it covered.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/backing-up-docusign/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-01-21T14:45:29+01:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Signed, sealed, secured â why you should independently back up DocusignÂ
It all starts with a contract. Docusign is a leading electronic signature and contract management platform, storing critical business agreements for 1.7 million organizations worldwide. It goes without saying that contracts and agreements are fundamental to business operations, compliance, and financial transactions.
Loss or corruption of signed agreements can lead to legal liabilities, financial losses, and operational disruptions. Keepit is adding Docusign to its portfolio — backing up even more of your critical SaaS operations in its independent cloud.
What does DocuSign back up natively?
Simply put, while DocuSign guarantees platform security and availability, customers are responsible for backing up their data and devices.
Docusign also imposes strict retention limits: customers only have a 24-hour window to restore deleted documents, uncompleted or expired documents may be removed after up to a year, and no recycle bin or soft-delete recovery options exist, leaving customers with minimal recovery windows.
Docusign houses your most important contracts and agreements, which are critical for HR, legal, purchasing, and various other functions inside your company. Without dedicated third-party backup solutions, any permanent deletion or system error could result in irreversible data loss.
To ensure continuity, compliance, and recoverability, leveraging an independent backup and recovery solution like Keepit is essential.
Keepit Backup and Recovery for Docusign
The new Keepit Backup and Recovery for Docusign adds another workload to Keepit's portfolio, all using the same core platform and UX capabilities in a single dashboard view. With Keepit, you get automated backup of Docusign data, easy restore capabilities in cases of data loss, and a way to manage your Docusign organization.
This will ensure your systems are covered in cases of human error or malicious attack — without having to rely on insufficient native backup capabilities in data loss scenarios.
Centralized SaaS backup
Keepit is continuously adding new workloads to its portfolio. With the addition of Jira, Confluence, Okta — and now Docusign — companies can benefit from a streamlined workflow, an easy-to-use interface, flexible recovery options, and have full visibility and comprehensive reporting for managers and leadership when it comes to their backups.
Ensuring all your business-critical data is securely backed up will mitigate any potential downtime and help you to stay compliant with evolving regulations. It’s the best way to have peace of mind after you’ve signed that important contract.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/backing-up-github/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-03-16T11:31:20+01:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Protect your source code â Keepit Backup and Recovery for GitHubÂ
You may remember to protect your important documents and contracts, but is anyone making sure that your source code is backed up? For most tech companies, code represents their most critical intellectual property — so what would happen if you suddenly lost access to it?
GitHub is the world's leading platform for software development and version control, hosting over 180 million developers and 680 million repositories in 2025. It contains critical business assets including source code, documentation, project management data, workflows, security policies, and collaboration history. With approximately 63% of repositories being public and more than 4.3 million repositories related to AI, open-source projects have become foundational to the coding ecosystem.
Despite GitHub's central role in modern software development, most organizations operate under a dangerous assumption: that their code is inherently safe simply because it lives on GitHub.
You are responsible for your GitHub repositories
Like most SaaS applications, GitHub operates under a shared responsibility model. While GitHub secures the platform infrastructure, customers bear full responsibility for their own data, access management, configurations, and — most critically — data recovery from accidental or intentional loss.
GitHub repositories persist indefinitely while active, with no automatic expiration of history. However, once deleted, they enter a recycle bin for merely 90 days before permanent removal. There's no built-in, long-term archival or configurable retention policy for repository metadata beyond this narrow window.
This creates a critical vulnerability: Relying solely on GitHub's native recovery capabilities leaves organizations exposed to permanent data loss from human error, security incidents, platform outages, and compliance failures.
Real-world risks your organization faces
- Human error is the most common threat
More often than not, data loss is caused by human error. Just one mistaken click can delete a repository, and GitHub's 90-day recovery window offers incomplete restoration: excluding release attachments, team permissions, and metadata from forked repositories.
- Security incidents and account compromises
Ransomware attacks happen every 11 seconds globally. Major companies, including Dropbox, Toyota, and Twitch, have suffered GitHub-related data breaches. Account compromises can lead to repository deletion, malicious commits, or code tampering.
- Platform outages that result in downtime
In March 2022, GitHub outages affected approximately 73 million users due to database health issues. When GitHub goes down, teams without independent backups face complete work stoppages, missed deployment deadlines, and mounting business costs. Long-lasting outages result in limited access and high downtime costs that can cripple operations.
- Compliance and audit requirements
Organizations subject to SOC 2, GDPR, ISO 27001, or industry-specific regulations need demonstrable data retention, audit trails, and recovery capabilities that extend far beyond GitHub's 90-day window. GitHub's native tools don’t provide any compliance reporting, configurable retention policies, or independent verification of data integrity.
Keepit Backup and Recovery for GitHub
Relying solely on native solutions leaves you vulnerable when the platform itself is compromised. Third-party backup is the only surefire way to mitigate damage resulting from cyberattacks, downtime, or mistakes.
Keepit safeguards the GitHub environment with:
- Automated daily backups of GitHub entities including code, metadata, and configurations
- Rapid recovery: point-in-time restore capabilities to recover the item to its exact previous state
- Security and compliance: immutable backups stored independently from GitHub, meeting regulatory requirements for data retention
- Ransomware defense: air-gapped storage protecting against repository tampering, malicious commits, or account compromises
- Operational continuity: ensures business continuity even during GitHub service disruptions or data loss events. 
 
Independent backup for your DevOps organization
Keepit backs up the most important SaaS applications your DevOps organization is using on a daily basis — from Jira and Confluence to Miro. By protecting your company’s vital tools that help you create, manage, and deliver your product to the market, you can focus on what matters: creating the best possible product for your customers.  
 
The Keepit platform is secure, reliable, and easy to use. With just a few clicks, you can see the health and status of your backups and be audit-ready in minutes.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/backing-up-jira-and-confluence-cloud/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-09-24T11:04:59+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Protecting your project execution â Keepit is now backing up Jira and Confluence CloudÂ
Atlassian’s suite of collaboration tools—Jira, Confluence, and others—has become mission-critical for countless teams across the globe. From software development to IT service management, Atlassian’s cloud products are the central nervous system of modern project execution: whether it’s tracking tickets and development workflows or storing vital knowledge in pages and spaces. Under Atlassian's shared responsibility model, it's up to you to safeguard your own data.
Shared responsibility: How effective is Atlassian’s native backup and recovery service?
Backing up your data in a separate infrastructure from your production data is an industry best practice to secure business continuity and comply with increasing regulations.
Although the offered, native backup and recovery service is useful for some Jira and Confluence customers, it has some major limitations: for starters, it’s not generally available for all Atlassian customers.
On top of that, the native backup solution only stores your data for up to 30 days, after which it expires and can’t be restored. Atlassian’s backup also has a limit to how much data you can restore on your own, without the help of customer support: backups larger than 60GB need Atlassian support assistance for restoration.
Reasons why you should independently back up Jira and Confluence Cloud
As companies become more and more dependent on SaaS applications, independent backup —and the capability to recover instantly — has become a basic element of cyber readiness.
Keepit backup and recovery for Jira and Confluence Cloud will ensure and support
- Business continuity 
 Regular backups are a must to mitigate risk of business disruption, financial loss, damage to a company's reputation, and even legal action.
- Protection against human error 
 Mistakes happen every day. Your users and administrators have access to your most vital data, and one accidental deletion means losing data you rely on the most. Human error is still the leading cause of data loss.
- Confidence during systems updates and migration 
 Having secure backups makes migration easier and more secure.
- Cyber resilience 
 Data loss from security breaches, such as ransomware and malicious deletion, are on the rise. Without a backup in place, your SaaS data can be lost forever.
- Compliance 
 To comply with increasing regulation such as NIS2 or GDPR, you need uninterrupted access to your data, and any data loss or disruption may lead to failures to comply.
Keepit backup and recovery for Jira and Confluence Cloud
Keepit backup and recovery for Jira and Confluence Cloud enables companies to secure their project management data, with assurance that it can always be recovered. Some of the key features of Keepit’s solution include
- Automated backups — have all your data at your fingertips, always, with comprehensive, automated backups of your Jira and Confluence Cloud.
- Granular restore capabilities — quickly identify the correct Jira and Confluence data to recover with Keepit’s Smart search and Previewer for projects, issues, files, and attachments.
- Storage — immutable backup and retention.
- 100% cloud based: no hardware, no upgrades.
- Secure platform architecture, built on a robust, cloud-native design with AES-256 encryption for data protection.
- End-to-end certifications: ISO 27001, ISAE 3402, and GDPR-compliant, ensuring the highest security standards.
- Independent cloud: Keepit’s vendor-neutral cloud stores backup data separately from SaaS providers.
- Monitoring of snapshot data to automatically detect anomalies.
- Compare backup snapshots to identify records added, modified, or deleted over time, enabling precise recovery.
Final thought: Your project management tools deserve the same protection as your source code or customer records
Imagine a product team losing its entire Jira roadmap, or a customer success team being cut off from the service history logged in Confluence. The ripple effects affect every part of the business.
That’s why backup isn’t a "nice to have" for Atlassian—it’s essential.
A dedicated backup solution tailored to Atlassian workloads ensures that your teams can innovate confidently, collaborate securely, and recover instantly—no matter what happens.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/backing-up-jira-service-management/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-06-18T13:42:26+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Keepit Backup and Recovery for Jira Service Management
Atlassian’s Jira, as well as Jira Service Management (JSM), has become central to IT and service operations. It manages incidents, requests, SLAs, and customer communication—often across the entire organization.
As Atlassian discontinues the support for on-premises services, customers need to start planning their move to the cloud — including how they will back up and recover their data. There’s a common assumption that data is inherently protected, but in reality, SaaS data protection works differently—and that difference matters.
Shared responsibility in Jira Service Management
JSM, like most SaaS applications, follows a shared responsibility model. Atlassian secures and operates the platform, but customers are responsible for their data—how it’s protected, retained, and recovered.
This means that while the service is available, recovery is limited. Native capabilities do not fully cover:
- Granular restore of tickets, attachments, or configurations
- Long-term, business-aligned retention
- Protection from accidental or malicious deletion
- Full rollback to a previously good state
In short, availability is their responsibility, but recovering and restoring data is up to you.
Why Jira Service Management data needs independent backup
Losing data in Jira Service Management can directly impact service delivery. At an operational level, data loss can lead to disrupted service desks and stalled tickets or slower incident response due to missing context.
At a broader level, JSM acts as a system of record. It supports audits, compliance, and post-incident analysis. When data is missing or incomplete, organizations risk losing traceability, audit readiness, and operational insight.
Atlassian offers some native backup and recovery services as an add-on, but with limited retention and no point-in-time restoration capabilities. It’s also important to remember that having your backups stored within your production environment means you’re vulnerable to platform failure.
Keepit Backup and Recovery for Jira Service Management
Keepit provides business continuity throughout your service management with independent backup and recovery for Jira Service Management Cloud.
What Keepit provides:
- Independent protection: Data is stored outside the production environment
- Automated backups: Continuous coverage without manual processes
- Granular restore: Recover individual issues, requests, and configurations without restoring entire environments
This gives organizations greater control over data and recovery—supporting both operational resilience and compliance needs.
As JSM becomes more embedded in critical workflows, ensuring that its data can be reliably recovered is no longer optional—it’s part of maintaining service continuity in the cloud.
Keepit protects your DevOps organizations most critical tools
The Keepit platform delivers independent backup and recovery for your most important product development and collaboration tools. From Jira and Confluence to collaboration tools like monday.com, Keepit offers a one-stop-shop solution for SaaS backup and recovery.  
 
Start ensuring your team’s business continuity today by making sure you can not only recover but restore all your critical processes if disaster strikes.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/backing-up-miro/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-01-23T12:16:43+01:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Think outside the boardÂ â secure your Miro data with KeepitÂ
Just like other collaboration tools, Miro has become critical for many companies when it comes to creating user journeys, roadmaps and strategic projects. Losing invaluable brainstorming or product development data can lead to costly disruptions in product planning, engineering workflows, and stakeholder alignment.
Keepit is now backing up Miro to ensure your project management processes are safe from disruptions — and that companies will never lose their valuable work product.
Risks of not backing up your collaboration data
Your teams work hard on projects — from their conception to the finish line. Collaboration inside teams has moved to online tools where everyone can contribute across the globe. In 2025, Miro had around 90 million users globally and stores 130,000 companies' collaboration data. As all this important work product has moved to the cloud, it's important to remember to ensure it’s all safely stored in case of human error, disruption, or cyberattack.
Ensuring business continuity means including backup and recovery planning into the mix.
Why you shouldn’t rely on Miro’s native backup capabilities
Many still don’t know that SaaS applications work under a shared responsibility model. This means Miro is responsible for its infrastructure and availability, but customers are responsible for their data. All companies using Miro assume the responsibility of ensuring that regular backups are in place and that they’re controlling user access and permissions with sufficient authentication methods.
With their native backup capabilities, Miro allows backup and restoration of boards manually downloaded from the application — with significant restrictions. Larger backups cannot be directly restored through the user interface and it requires manual exporting. Miro also only backs up boards — account settings, team data, project configurations, or user metadata are not included in their backups.
Only independent backup and recovery capabilities will ensure your team always has the ability to recover and restore in situations of data loss.
Secure your projects from start to finish — Keepit Backup and Recovery for Miro
Keepit is now offering a comprehensive and secure way to back up all data and metadata in Miro. With Keepit, companies can add Miro coverage and benefit from:
- Automated backups, so your data remains preserved and recoverable whenever you need it
- Instant search and preview of Miro data
- Easy implementation and intuitive interface
- Keepit’s data compare function to identify records added, modified, or deleted over time, enabling precise recovery
- Unlimited retention
- The highest possible security as backups are stored in our vendor-independent cloud, and immutable by design
- Being able to easily prove compliance with backup requirements and data protection efforts
One-stop shop for your SaaS backup needs
This fall, Keepit has added coverage for crucial applications for Product and DevOps organizations — securing processes from brainstorming to development and execution.
Having your Jira, Confluence, and Miro data backed up, you’ll never have to worry about the cost, compliance, or security of your project management tools.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/backing-up-monday/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-07-27T16:37:36+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-08-02

============================================================

When âundoâ isnât enough: Keepit Backup and Recovery for monday.com is here
Project management and collaboration tools ensure you keep your businesses running —from planning to execution. More than 250,000 users spanning software development and the media industry rely on monday.com to manage their daily projects.
As a platform monday.com only provides restore capabilities for short-term error recovery and basic disaster protection — long-term data governance, compliance, audit-readiness and business continuity are entirely left to its users.
Simply put: Independent, third-party backup and recovery capabilities are the only way for you to be sure you always have access to your monday.com data.
Why do you need to back up your monday.com data?
Like other SaaS applications, monday.com operates under a shared responsibility model: It’s responsible for the security of the service — infrastructure, platform architecture, hosting environment, and core application security. Although it performs platform-level backups, it does not guarantee recovery from user-driven incidents such as accidental or malicious deletions, insider mistakes or ransomware. Customers are responsible for protecting their own data, configurations, and access management.
 
With the platform’s limited built-in restoration capabilities, users can’t do point in time restorations, and the rollback window for certain items is only 7 days. After 30 days, deleted items are no longer recoverable through the platform —making it the user's responsibility to have a third–party backup in place.  
Keepit Backup and Recovery for monday.com
Implementing a backup and recovery strategy is at the center of business continuity. With Keepit Backup and Recovery for monday.com you have access to
- Automated daily backups of monday.com items, boards and columns
- Rapid recovery: point-in-time restore capabilities to recover the item to its exact previous state
- Security and compliance: immutable backups stored independently from monday.com, meeting regulatory requirements for data retention and business continuity
- Ransomware defense: air-gapped storage protecting against any malicious threats
- Operational continuity: ensures business continuity during service downtime 
Keepit platform secures your collaboration processes
Product and creative teams across the globe rely on project management and collaboration tools to bring teams together as well as track and execute on cross-functional projects. Losing months of work due to an accidentally deleted board is a hassle nobody wants to face.
 
Keepit backs up your collaboration and project management process — all in one platform. By securing Jira and Confluence, Miro and monday.com, your team will always have the ability to restore the spaces you’re working in, when you need to.  
 
Collaborating in tools like monday.com shouldn’t become a risk factor for your team – and it doesn’t have to be.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/backing-up-okta/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-01-20T14:24:12+01:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Enhance your IAM resilience: Keepit Backup and Recovery for Okta Â
With the growing adoption of SaaS applications, identity and access management (IAM) has become essential — tools such as Okta enable business operations by giving employees necessary rights and access to perform their daily work.
Just as with Microsoft Entra ID, cyberattacks or misconfigurations due to human error in Okta can have a significant impact on business continuity, making it a vital tool to independently back up.
Why is it important to back up your identity and access management applications?
Identity systems like Okta are increasingly targeted by cyberattacks. They're in essence the key to your organization —losing the ability to monitor, grant and revoke logins or access to workflows and applications can bring your business operations to a standstill. Even small misconfigurations, accidental deletions, or malicious modifications in Okta can cause widespread outages—locking out users or breaking integrations. These can be costly for your organization as misconfigured IAM policies can cost organizations up to $1.5 million annually — from fines, unauthorized access, and productivity loss.
Okta, just as other SaaS providers, operates under a shared responsibility model, and does not currently provide a built-in backup and restore capability for your configuration. This means customers are responsible for creating and managing their own backup strategies. With no native backup capabilities available, independent backup through a provider like Keepit is the only way to be 100% certain your data is always recoverable.
Enhance your identity and access management resilience
Keepit is now backing up Okta – adding it to the multiple workloads covered alongside Microsoft 365, Microsoft Entra ID, Google Workspace and other critical SaaS applications.
Keepit Backup and Recovery for Okta enhances your business resilience by enabling:
- Automated, immutable backups
- Restoration of compromised configurations
- Rollback of tampered policies.
The recovery of Okta objects through the Keepit platform is fast and minimizes disruption to your day-to-day operations.
As compliance requirements have become more stringent, the Keepit platform will ensure compliance with cybersecurity frameworks such as NIST CSF and ISO 27001. On top of this, regulations such as GDPR and HIPAA also require the ability to demonstrate governance over identity systems — the Keepit platform is a surefire way to comply through detailed restore logs, audit-proofing your operations.
Keepit is making your life easier – centralized backup for your most used SaaS applications
With the addition of Okta, Keepit is making the life of IT teams easier by centralizing backup and recovery activities for the most common applications for identity and access management (Microsoft Entra ID and Okta), and productivity (Microsoft 365 and Google Workspace). This means companies can benefit from
- A streamlined workflow
- An easy-to-use interface
- Flexible recovery options
- Full visibility and comprehensive reporting for managers and leadership.
Don’t find yourself locked out of your systems – let’s talk about how to secure your identity and access management applications.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/balancing-dr-security/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-09-18T09:26:29+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Balancing disaster recovery, backup systems, and security
Cyberattacks are no longer just an IT issue — they’re a business survival issue, and so without a tested, resilient backup strategy in place, a ransomware attack or cloud outage can bring operations to a standstill.
In the past, backup was just something someone took care of, and testing wasn’t done that often. But with the cyberthreats and regulations of today, backup needs to be more agile and at the heart of cyber resilience strategies.
Organizations must balance disaster recovery (DR), backup systems, and security to ensure resilience against ransomware, data breaches, and operational disruptions.
Backup as the cornerstone of security
In many cases, you don’t immediately know when an infection started, because some attackers deliberately wait for an organization to activate backups to strike deeper into the system. This makes it very difficult to find a clean backup — the last known-good state.
That’s a tough challenge, which is why having historical backup data — and ensuring it’s quickly accessible, especially with hot storage — significantly improves the chances of a fast, complete recovery, minimizing downtime and financial loss.
Having a backup that goes way back in order to get to that safe state helps to solve incidents. Often, incidents require deep analysis and cooperation with government and other entities to determine where/when you should roll back to.
Cyber insurance providers recognize that a robust backup and recovery strategy is vital, which is why it’s a key insurability criterion. To qualify for coverage, organizations need immutable backups, regular testing, and vendor-independent storage in place as part of their business continuity plan to ensure real recoverability under real-world conditions.
Comprehensive cybersecurity: From users to cloud providers
Of course, it’s not only about backup; it starts with having a complete cybersecurity plan that covers everything from the user to backup systems and to partners in the cloud. Organizations must look at all the steps to protect themselves.
For example, phishing is one of the most common attack methods used by bad actors. Phishing relies on tricking users into clicking a bait link or login, which, once interacted with, compromises the user’s system in various ways. Phishing attacks can lead to immediate execution of malicious code, harvesting of user-entered credentials, network compromise, and other impacts.
Phishing attackers often escalate privileges and move laterally. This is why organizations must adopt a zero-trust approach — one where they always verify, never trust. No company has a full overview of all access and processes at all times.
AI can help with visibility and control, but attackers also have access to AI, so it’s a continuous challenge. Offshoring, outsourcing, and cloud storage make control even more important — organizations must know where their data is (data sovereignty), who has access, and have more than one backup copy stored in a vendor-independent method, outside of the production data’s infrastructure.
The cyber resilience mirage of single-cloud backups
It’s risky to rely on the same cloud provider for both production data and backup data. If that provider experiences an outage, a cyberattack, or a policy change, organizations may lose access to their data — or even lose their data — because of the single point of failure.
Part of cyber resilience means maintaining control over backups. This is done by storing backup copies in a vendor-independent cloud within the organization’s region and under its own governance. This isn’t just about choosing a backup provider, it’s about ensuring real recoverability and long-term security and compliance with current and future regulations. From my experience, it’s clear that organizations that control their own backups are better prepared for the unexpected.
Backup as a board-level discussion
Backup has historically been in the hands of system engineers, but it needs to be a discussion at the C-level. The key question is: If you don’t have access to Microsoft 365, what do you do? This is a risk management issue.
Organizations need to move from just checking if backups exist to asking what happens if everything is gone — what’s the recovery plan? Cybersecurity strategies must integrate protection, access control, and recovery as cornerstones of business continuity.
Conclusion
Balancing disaster recovery, backup, and security is critical. The discussion must shift from compliance checkboxes to real operational readiness. Backup should be treated as a security asset, regularly tested, and protected.
Organizations need to take control of their backup strategies, ensuring they have the ability to recover under catastrophic circumstances. Involving leadership, ensuring geographic redundancy, and integrating backup into cybersecurity strategies will enhance resilience.
The organizations that prioritize backup and disaster recovery as part of their overall security posture will be best positioned to withstand cyberthreats and maintain business continuity, as well as being better equipped to meet current and future directives and regulations like NIS2 and DORA.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/business-risk-of-not-backing-up-azure-ad/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:41:06+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Whatâs the business risk of not backing up Entra ID (Azure AD)?
VideoNov. 7, 2023By Paul Robichaux
Keepit’s Paul Robichaux, Microsoft MVP and Keepit Sr. Director of Product, explains the math of not protecting Azure AD (Entra ID). 
"It’s all about the probability of 'x' expected damage. The probability: 2/3 of Azure AD admins don’t use MFA. With 50 million password attacks daily targeting Azure AD, you can be pretty sure you’ll be on the receiving end of a successful attack one day. Or a system outage. Or human error."
The damage: Protecting your identities and policies is critical to keeping your business up and running. Losing access to Azure AD means your business is dead in the water. 
The solution: Back up Azure AD in a completely separate infrastructure.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/california-consumer-privacy-act/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-03-16T11:49:58+01:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

What is CCPA? Hereâs what you need to know about Californiaâs privacy lawÂ
The California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) is California’s landmark privacy law. It gives California residents rights over their personal information (PI) and requires many businesses to be transparent about how they collect, use, and share that data — and to honor consumer requests regarding their PI within defined timelines.
CCPA matters because it has real enforcement consequences; it has shaped privacy expectations far beyond California, and it increasingly pushes organizations toward operational, evidenceâbased compliance (not just relying on privacy policy wording).
So, what is the California Consumer Privacy Act?
CCPA is California’s comprehensive consumer privacy framework. In practice, it sets expectations in three big areas:
- Transparency (notices and privacy policy disclosures)
- Consumer rights (and how businesses must respond)
- Accountability (contracts, governance, and — increasingly — security and risk documentation)
You’ll also hear about CPRA (California Privacy Rights Act). CPRA amended the CCPA rather than creating an entirely separate law — so most official guidance still refers to “CCPA” or “CCPA, as amended.” Read more about the California AG’s explanation.
New obligations under CCPA: Timeline and what’s changing
In late September 2025, California completed a major regulatory update under the CCPA. The Office of Administrative Law (OAL) approved the regulations, and California’s privacy regulator announced the approval on Sept. 23, 2025. See the regulator’s rulemaking status page and the official announcement.
The updated rules took effect Jan. 1, 2026, with phased compliance timelines for the most complex new requirements.
Timeline at a glance (official timeline)
- Jan. 1, 2026: Risk assessment regime takes effect for new high-risk processing
- Jan. 1, 2027: Automated decision-making technology (ADMT) requirements begin for covered uses
- Dec. 31, 2027: Transition deadline for completing risk assessments for pre-existing high-risk processing activities
- April 1, 2028: First risk assessment submissions/attestations due
- Starting April 1, 2028: Cybersecurity audit certification deadlines begin for certain businesses (revenue-tiered)
Depending on your organization’s profile and processing activities, these updates can introduce or expand obligations around:â¯
- Risk assessmentsâ¯(duties beginning in 2026, with submissions due starting in 2028)â¯â¯
- Cybersecurity auditsâ¯(with certification deadlines starting in 2028, and revenue-based phase-in)
- ADMT (new notice and consumer-rights requirements for certain “significant decision” uses beginning in 2027)
The detailed triggers are complex, but one theme is consistent: California is pushing privacy compliance toward documented, reviewable internal controls — not only disclosures.â¯
Why CCPA matters
CCPA matters because it turns privacy from a policy exercise into an operational one. For many organizations, it’s a practical baseline for what regulators, customers, and procurement teams expect a privacy program to be able to do. CCPA is often treated as a U.S. “baseline” because it combines:
- Consumer rights that require real workflows (intake, verification, fulfillment, and logging) — see CA AG CCPA guidance
- Opt-out requirements for “sale” and “sharing” of PI including honoring preference signals like the Global Privacy Control (GPC) — see CA AG’s GPC guidance
- Enforcement and penalties that can scale quickly (often framed per violation and supported by published fine/damages ranges) — see CPPA CPI adjustment amounts
- Rising accountability in the 2026 regulations (risk assessments, cybersecurity audits)
The next question is whether your organization is actually covered — CCPA doesn’t apply to every business, and applicability depends on a few specific thresholds.
Who does CCPA apply to?
CCPA doesn’t apply to every organization. It generally applies to a for-profit business that:
- Does business in California
- Collects consumers’ personal information (or has it collected on its behalf)
- Determines the purposes and means of processing that personal information
- Meets at least one threshold:
- Annual gross revenue over $26,625,000 (inflation-adjusted, effective 1/1/2025), or
- Buys, sells, or shares personal information of 100,000 or more consumers or households, or
- Derives 50% or more of annual revenue from selling or sharing consumers’ personal information
Important note on geography: You do not need to be headquartered in California. If you “do business” in California and meet the above-mentioned criteria, CCPA can still apply.
What rights does CCPA give consumers?
CCPA defines a consumer as a natural person who is a California resident however identified, including by any unique identifier.
CCPA gives consumers several core rights that businesses must be able to support operationally. The California Attorney General summarizes these rights in the official CCPA FAQs. These rights include:
- Right to know/access (what personal information is collected and how it’s used/shared)
- Right to delete (with exceptions)
- Right to correct inaccurate personal information
- Right to opt out of sale or sharing (including via signals like GPC)
- Right to limit the use/disclosure of sensitive personal information
- Right to nondiscrimination for exercising privacy rights
This is where “privacy policy compliance” must become “operational compliance”: dedicated intake channels in place, identity verification processes, defined response timelines, coordination with third-party vendors, and logging/evidence.
CCPA compliance requirements basics: What businesses can do
Most CCPA programs aren’t a single project — they’re a set of repeatable, auditable, and operational building blocks. Here are the starting points teams prioritize:
1) Publish the right notices and disclosures
Businesses must provide clear disclosures about what personal information they collect and why, and how consumers can exercise their rights. For a practical baseline, see the CA AG’s required notices overview (section H) and the applicable sections of the official text 2026 regulations text (PDF).
2) Build a request handling workflow you can prove
You’ll need a workflow to receive, verify, and fulfill consumer requests (know/access, delete, correct, opt-out, limit).
3) Operationalize optouts (including GPC)
If you “sell” or “share” personal information as defined by CCPA, you need reliable opt-out handling.
Additionally, online businesses must also treat a user-enabled preference signal like GPC as a valid opt-out request. See the CA AG’s Global Privacy Control guidance.
4) Map your supply chain and data flows
If service providers/contractors process personal information of consumers on your behalf, your ability to comply with CCPA often depends on contracts that you have with these vendors as well as processes that support deletion/correction and restrictions on downstream use of consumers’ personal information.
5) Don’t ignore backups and archived systems
CCPA compliance isn’t only about your live production systems. Organizations should understand where personal information may persist (including backups) and what processes exist when data is restored or accessed. This becomes even more relevant under the cybersecurity audit requirements, which explicitly include business continuity and disaster recovery components.
Enforcement and penalties under CCPA
CCPA isn’t just a policy requirement — it’s enforceable, and penalties can add up quickly.
Who enforces CCPA?
Enforcement authority sits with California’s privacy regulator (CalPrivacy) and the California Attorney General. CalPrivacy enforces the CCPA administratively (investigations, fines, rulemaking) without needing to go to court, while the Attorney General enforces it through civil court litigation with more limited powers.
Administrative fines can be assessed per violation
CCPA administrative fines are assessed per violation. And California publishes inflation-adjusted monetary thresholds.
Effective Jan. 1, 2025, the inflation-adjusted amounts are:
- Up to $2,663 per violation, and
- Up to $7,988 per violation for intentional violations and violations involving personal information of consumers the business has actual knowledge are under 16.
Because fines are counted per violation, organizations should treat incidents such as consumer request-handling breakdowns, opt-out failures, and “at scale” issues as higher-risk than one-off errors.
Statutory monetary damages for customers: Range is also inflation-adjusted
Separate from administrative fines, CCPA includes statutory monetary damages per consumer per incident. Effective Jan. 1, 2025, California’s published, inflation-adjusted range is not less than $107 and not greater than $799 per consumer per incident (or actual damages, whichever is greater).
Newer regulations increase governance pressure
The 2026 regulations add requirements around cybersecurity audits, risk assessments, and automated decision-making technology, with phased compliance dates and first submission dates stretching into 2028 and beyond.
Notably, the regulations require certain submissions to be filed by appropriate members of the business's executive management which must affirm under penalty of perjury that the submission is true and correct. This is an unprecedented and meaningful shift toward personal accountability and executive-level certification.
What this means for security, resilience, and audit readiness
Even though not every organization covered by CCPA will fall under the cybersecurity audit requirement, the direction is clear: California privacy compliance is increasingly tied to security governance and recoverability.
For businesses that do fall within the audit scope, the regulations don’t stop at classic security controls. They also explicitly include business continuity and disaster recovery, including data recovery capabilities and backups. That means teams may need to demonstrate not only how they prevent incidents, but also how they restore systems and personal information — and how they test those capabilities.
In practice, this tends to pull privacy, security, and IT operations closer together: Privacy teams need confidence that data can be located and handled correctly across systems, and security teams need evidence that resilience planning and recovery processes work under real conditions. The compliance takeaway is straightforward: If you’re preparing for CCPA enforcement scrutiny, you should be able to show repeatable processes — not just written policies.
Below are quick answers to a few common CCPA questions teams ask when scoping compliance.
FAQ
Is CCPA the same as GDPR?
They share concepts (consumer/data subject rights, transparency, and security expectations), but they’re different legal regimes with different scope, definitions, and compliance mechanisms. Many global organizations treat CCPA as one pillar of a broader privacy program rather than trying to “copy-paste” a GDPR approach.
Do you have to be based in California?
No. If your organization does business in California and meets CCPA thresholds, you may be covered even if you’re headquartered elsewhere.
How quickly do penalties add up?
Because administrative fines can be assessed per violation, exposure can scale quickly when a gap affects many consumers or persists over time. Read CCPA enforcement case examples from the State of California Department of Justice.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/checklist-for-articulating-design-decisions/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:30:47+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

6-step checklist for articulating design decisions
Nice to know for UX, Product Designers, and Product Managers
In the process of designing any digital product, there is always a time when you, as a UX or Product designer, need to make a tough decision.
It’s often combined with the limited time and pressure from customers, engineers, managers, and everyone else in the product development cycle.
You may need to accept thatâ¯panic,â¯fear, and lack ofâ¯self-confidenceâ¯are often part of the decision-making process.
Sounds familiar? In this article, I’ll share a six-step decision-making framework that will not only make your process faster but also easier to articulate to all those involved.
When making a decision, we form opinions and choose actions via mental processes which are influenced by biases, reason, emotions, and memories. The simple act of deciding supports the notion that we haveâ¯free will. We weigh the benefits and costs of our choice, and then we cope with the consequences. Factors that limit the ability to make good decisions include missing or incomplete information, urgent deadlines, and limited physical or emotional resources.
Psychology Today
The ability to think critically is key to making good decisions without succumbing to common errors, bias, or intuition. “There is a need for disciplined intuition and what I mean by disciplined is delayed intuition. One of the many problems with our intuitions is they come too fast and we tend to confirm them.” (Kahneman, Daniel. Thinking, Fast and Slow. New York: Farrar, Straus, and Giroux, 2011.)
When you look at all possible sources of information with an open mind, you can make an informed decision based on facts rather than intuition.
Let's move on to putting the decision-making framework into action.
Design Decision Framework
This process will ensure that you make a good decision in a complex situation, but it may be unnecessarily complicated for small or simple decisions. In these cases, jump ahead to step 5.
Step 1. Investigate the problem
Start by considering the decision in the context of the problem it is intended to address. You need to determine whether the stated problem is the real issue or just a symptom of something deeper.
To make a proper problem investigation, first you need to know the user that is facing this problem, why it happens, and how often it occurs – to name a few. There are many things to know about your user and product when you’re working on a new problem. To make sure that you understood the core problem, using the 5 Whys framework can be helpful.
Step 2. Set up the environment
Enable people to take the discussions without any fear of the other participants rejecting them and their ideas. Make sure that everyone recognizes that the objective is to make the best decision possible in the circumstances, without blame. This is often referred to as psychological safety, and it’s a key part of the process.
Step 3. Generate good alternatives
The wider the options you explore, the better your final decision is likely to be. Generating a number of different options may seem to make your decision more complicated at first, but the act of coming up with alternatives forces you to dig deeper and to look at the problem from different angles. Make sure that all of your options are good enough – you don't need to create options just for illusion of choice or quantity.
When you're satisfied with the choice of realistic alternatives, it's time to evaluate the value, feasibility, and risks of each one.
Step 4. Select the best solution
This is the step where you make a decision!
In the design process, you can't really develop a product by yourself, so you will probably make a decision as a group of people – and of course more people make it a more complicated decision process. It is optimal to keep the total number from 3 to 7, depending on your company process.
If there’s a tendency for certain individuals to dominate the process, you can arrange anonymous voting or assign a facilitator who will ensure equal participation.
To simplify the final decision, you can use the product design principles of your company to find the solution that will perfectly fit into your brand and strategy.
Product design principles (or, in short, design principles) are value statements that describe the most important goals that a product or service should deliver for users and are used to frame design decisions.
To make small design decisions—components, colors, alignment—lean into your design system and guidelines, as they should cover most of the cases. If they don’t, make a note and discuss it with a design system owner to make sure that your idea will fit into the general strategy.
If your product, for one reason or another, does not have an established design system, you can use well-known systems like Material Design, IBM, etc.
Step 5. Evaluate your decision
Now is the time to check your decision one more time. Before you start to implement your decision, take a long, dispassionate look at it to be sure that you have been thorough and that common errors haven't crept into the process.
Your final decision is only as good as the facts and research you used to make it. Make sure that your information is trustworthy and try to avoid confirmation bias.
Of course, sometimes you are limited by resources for implementation, release date, or budget, so it’s impossible to implement the best solution. And that’s okay! As a designer, you should always remember that the development of the product is an iterative process, so you just need to choose the most suitable option in the current circumstances for your product to evolve, even if you personally do not like the solution. If this decision will have a balance of usefulness for the user vs. resources used - then you made the right decision.
Step 6. Communicate your decision and take action.
Once you've made your decision, you need to communicate it to everyone affected by it in an engaging, informative, and inspiring way.
Get them involved in implementing the solution by discussing how and why you arrived at your decision. The more information you provide about risks and projected benefits, the more likely people will be to support it.
Summary
- Remember, we’re all humans. It’s okay to have emotions involved in the decision process – you just need to know how to handle it.
- Think critically and make an informed decision based on facts rather than intuition – don’t allow the desires of others to dictate your decision.
- You’re not alone: collaborate with your project team.
- Communicate the decision that you made in an engaging and inspiring way. Explain why you came up with this decision – don't present a decision as a fact.
Involved or interested in design? For further reading, check out our other blog posts by the Keepit design team, such as how Keepit puts UX first and why customers love Keepit’s ease of use.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/ciso-approved-backup/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T02:24:11+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

What is CISO-approved backup?
Background of Keepit’s CISO Kim Larsen
My journey into cybersecurity started long ago when I was a police officer. I was working in serious crime investigation, which then took me to the internet as the world went to cyber, and eventually I joined the intelligence service in Denmark as CSO. After that, I was working with NATO and the EU as a delegate to the security committees.
This background has been incredibly beneficial as it taught me to handle crises, assess risks, and maintain a certain calmness under pressure. These skills are vital in the cybersecurity world, where threats are ever-present and evolving daily. As a police officer, I was trained to see risks that others might overlook, and this perspective has been invaluable in my career role as a CISO.
Understanding the cybercrime landscape
One of the significant challenges in cybersecurity, as I see it, is the dynamic nature of cybercrime. Criminals can constantly change their tactics and crime scenes, making it difficult to combat them. Therefore, it’s crucial to have a strong collaboration between governments and enterprises to prevent these crimes effectively. The cooperation between different sectors is vital because cybersecurity threats don’t respect borders, and international collaboration is often required to address them.
Having the right level of security is key to earning customer trust.
The critical role of a CISO in backup solutions
At Keepit, we recognize that we are the last line of defense for an enterprise. When everything else fails, businesses rely on their backup systems to recover and continue operations. This is why backup solutions need to be robust, reliable, and secure. My role involves ensuring that we stay ahead of compliance regulations, understand the threats we face, and mitigate those risks effectively.
Bringing backup to the forefront
Traditionally, backup systems have been viewed as something in the corner (or quite literally the basement), often neglected until disaster strikes, where it’s hoped everything will work for a recovery.
However, I believe that backup solutions, like those provided by Keepit, should be brought to the forefront of an organization’s strategy. Our solution ensures that data is not only backed up but secure, readily accessible, and restorable, aligning with the critical needs of modern enterprises, such as ensuring business continuity and compliance even in the face of disruptions.
Backup systems aren’t just an IT concern but should be a significant consideration for management, C-level, and the board. Regular testing and daily engagement with backup solutions are essential to ensure they are ready when they are desperately needed — after an attack or other data loss event.
The Keepit approach to backup
At Keepit, we provide backup solutions for software-as-a-service (SaaS) environments. This means that we back up data and allow businesses to work live with the information, whether it’s a regional backup or a cloud backup. One of the key features of our solution is the ability to reverse cloud backups to local backups. This ensures that businesses can always access their data, even if they lose connection to their cloud provider, such as Microsoft, Google, or Amazon. This dual approach provides a significant advantage in terms of compliance and business continuity.
Security measures and certifications
We pride ourselves on using a well-proven, robust data center solution and maintaining rigorous security standards. Our security measures are based on ISO 27001 certification, which, while not providing security on its own, assures our customers that the entire Keepit organization lives up to the highest international security standards and ensures that we have the necessary controls in place. We focus on maintaining strict control over access, keeping IDs updated, and ensuring that only authorized personnel have access to our servers.
Identity management and zero trust
Credential management is critical in cybersecurity. While the concept of zero trust is often more theoretical, we strive to implement as many controls as possible to minimize risks. To me, zero trust is mostly theory because I don’t think anyone has total control over all of the processes in their infrastructure. For a deeper understanding of zero trust principles, you can refer to the NIST Zero Trust Architecture.
So, my advice is to build a control framework that, first of all, protects your critical assets and ensures that you have identified and protected those frameworks of controls that work. By doing that you also map what you might not have sufficient control over, be aware of that, and then protect it even more than you do with the rest of your assets.
It’s essential to understand which assets you need to protect the most and to build a governance framework around those assets. This approach helps in identifying and safeguarding the crown jewels of your enterprise; it’s all about asset identification.
He who defends everything, defends nothing.
Frederick the Great
Compliance and regulations
Compliance with regulations is a global concern. Whether it’s GDPR or NIS2 compliance in Europe or other data protection laws in the US like DORA (Digital Operational Resilience Act) and others around the world, businesses need to be aware of and comply with these regulations. It’s not just about having a certificate; it’s about living the compliance regulations and integrating them into the enterprise culture. Trust is paramount in our industry, and if customers don’t trust us, they won’t buy our services.
The impact of AI and future threats
Artificial Intelligence is rapidly changing the threat landscape. The ability of AI to mimic human behavior and infiltrate systems is a growing concern. It’s crucial to know where your data is and ensure it’s adequately protected. This includes being cautious about using public AI services and understanding what data can be shared and what must remain secure.
Data management challenges
One of the biggest challenges in data management is knowing where your data is and how it’s protected. This includes understanding where data is stored when it’s in the cloud, how it’s transported, and how employees share it. Most data breaches occur due to unintentional data sharing rather than malicious intent. Therefore, it’s essential to provide clear guidelines and establish a framework that aligns with how employees work.
Balancing security and collaboration
The foundation of any business is data sharing, but this must be balanced with security needs. Over-classification of data can impede collaboration and productivity. It’s about finding the right balance where security measures protect the most critical data while allowing for effective collaboration within the organization.
The importance of regular testing
A backup solution is only as good as its last test. Regular testing ensures that the backup system is functional and ready to be deployed when needed. It’s essential to integrate this testing into the daily operations of the organization rather than waiting for a disaster to strike.
Conclusion
A CISO-approved backup solution is one that is robust, reliable, and secure. It involves regular testing, strong compliance with regulations, effective identity management, and a balanced approach to data security and collaboration. If you have active backup that is also used on a daily basis for file recovery, for example, the chance that it works and that your organization knows how to use it is significantly raised in case of a large-scale incident.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/coding-for-greener-backup/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:12:57+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Greener backup services with efficient code
The following is an abridged version of my recent article, “Tapping the potential of code for greener backup services,” which is published, in full, with Computer Weekly.
The language of sustainability
Sustainability goes beyond green energy; it includes building efficient, reliable, and adaptable systems. Using C++ as the primary programming language enables the development of storage systems that minimize resource usage while maximizing performance and reliability.
Efficient architecture and programming
Sustainability is about optimizing efficiency at every operational level to minimize resource consumption while maximizing performance and profitability. C++ helps create sustainable, scalable architectures, reducing environmental impact and avoiding legacy inefficiencies.
Purpose-built architecture
The key to sustainable data management is purpose-built architecture, tailored to address storage challenges efficiently. Deduplication, eliminating redundant data, is crucial. This approach streamlines operations, reduces complexity, and lowers resource consumption compared to virtual machines provided by third-party platforms.
Choosing efficient programming languages
Efficiency extends to programming languages. C++, known for its performance and low resource utilization, can yield significant energy savings compared to resource-intensive languages. Its versatility, low-level access to system resources, and support for high-level abstractions make it ideal for developing efficient and scalable software.
Avoiding legacy inefficiencies
Legacy systems introduce complexity and inefficiencies, increasing costs and energy consumption. By maintaining full ownership and control of the technology stack, companies can streamline operations and minimize resource overhead, prioritizing lean, purpose-built architectures that deliver long-term benefits.
Performance as a priority
Optimizing resource usage is essential for long-term sustainability, especially with the increasing volume of data. Meticulous design of storage architecture and code optimization are necessary. Off-the-shelf solutions may offer quick fixes, but efficient code is crucial for addressing core issues sustainably.
The impact of code on sustainability and cost
Adopting sustainable practices in architecture design and programming languages reduces energy consumption, predicts costs, and simplifies compliance. Techniques like incremental backup and deduplication enhance efficiency, sustainability, and profitability. C++ enables the creation of resource-efficient, fast, and environmentally sustainable storage systems.
Conclusion
Prioritizing responsible resource consumption and operational efficiency allows technology companies to lead in environmental stewardship without compromising profitability. By integrating sustainable practices, we can foster a more environmentally conscious tech industry for future generations.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/creating-cloud-exit-strategy/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:20:10+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Top 3 considerations for a cloud exit strategy
What’s key to contract language for a cloud exit strategy?
Put in the simplest terms, a cloud exit strategy, also known as a reverse migration, is the process of creating a plan to ensure a company can effectively transition out or—or between—various cloud services.
Naturally, this should be a focus area for all companies moving to the cloud or engaged with outsourcing in general, either between cloud vendors in connection with retendering, or back to on-premises insourcing.
Regulations driving the need
Certain regulated industries have, in comparison to other industries, a more mature risk-based approach to exit strategies as the regulatory bodies overseeing them have more broadly developed requirements. In the financial industry, for instance, it is mandatory that financial institutions develop and implement comprehensive exit plans that are not only well documented but also, where appropriate, sufficiently tested.
Companies in other industries could adopt the same approach. The reason for the financial regulators to focus on these issues and to require financial institutions to do this is in order to protect the overall stability of the financial systems due to the important role they play in our society.
Financial institutions will, among other things, ask the cloud vendor to provide certain clauses in the cloud agreement that support the financial institution's exit strategy. To cater to this, Keepit has developed amendments to our standard offering to customers that will provide additional services in connection with an exit.
Top 3 considerations for cloud exit strategy amendments:
- Clearly set out the obligations of the existing service provider in the case of a transfer of the outsourced function to another service provider or back to the customer, including the treatment of data.
- Set an appropriate transition period during which the service provider, after the termination of the outsourcing arrangement, would continue to provide the outsourced function to reduce the risk of disruptions.
- Include an obligation of the service provider to support the customer in the orderly transfer of the function in the event of the termination of the outsourcing agreement.
Managing data and costs
Depending on how simple and transparent the cloud vendors' price models are, the customer could also focus on the costs in connection with such a transition, for instance, in the form of egress charges. Keepit has a super simple price model with no egress or ingress charges, but that is far from the standard in the market. Generally speaking, services based on public clouds charge for egress and ingress.
The actual migration of data in connection with an exit is more difficult to define in advance, but the vendor should be willing to assist and support the migration against payment for the services rendered. It is important to keep in mind that “data” in this context is not just the files themselves – the word document or the XLS. “Data” is also all the metadata surrounding the files – the business and technical context of the data processing. Keeping and transferring metadata can be a challenge.
However, by having a backup and recovery solution built on blockchain-verified, immutable technology, Keepit enables organizations to document cloud data processing of data transitions from one primary vendor’s service to the next – provided, of course, that you keep an independent backup of the datasets.
Takeaways on data regulations and data portability
On a general note, and separate from the above, exit rights in the form of data portability rights have been, at least partly, regulated in the European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), where data portability requirements allow individuals to obtain and reuse their personal data for their own purposes—across different services. The right allows the data subjects to move, copy, or transfer personal data easily from one vendor to another, safely and securely, without affecting its usability.
Although the right is intended for data subjects (the individuals), it has, to some extent, transgressed to companies focusing on the availability to move data from one vendor to the next, which has created a demand for tooling to support such data portability needs. Keepit allows the customer to move the data and to provide certain tooling to do that at no additional charge.
Finally, having a third-party backup of your data does counter the risk of lock-in with the specific vendor as you have your data available through the backup vendor. Although not the primary reason to ensure a backup, we do see this as an additional benefit to having third-party backup.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/cyber-insurance-cybersecurity-framework/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T02:42:12+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

What is cyber resilience? Insurance, recovery, and layered defenses
From insurance to defense: Creating a cybersecurity framework for ransomware resilience
As organizations continue to adapt to an increasingly digital world, the risks we face from cyberattacks grow more complex and, unfortunately, more frequent. The rise of ransomware (and ransom payments) has become a significant threat to organizations of all sizes, demanding more robust defenses and comprehensive strategies to mitigate the associated risks.
Cyber insurance has emerged as one key tool in this fight, but it’s only part of a larger, multifaceted approach to cyber resilience. In this blog, I’ll explore the critical role of cyber insurance, alongside essential cybersecurity strategies, and how building your cybersecurity maturity framework — based on the controls required by insurers — helps ensure resilience.
The growing ransomware threat
Ransomware has evolved from opportunistic attacks to a sophisticated, well-organized criminal enterprise. According to ESG research, 89% of enterprises consider ransomware one of the top five threats to their business viability. This figure is alarming but not surprising. Surprisingly, 11% of organizations still don’t see ransomware as a top threat, despite its rapid growth and severity.
Serious incidents, like ransomware, are no longer a question of "if" but "when." Attackers continually refine their methods, targeting vulnerable organizations by exploiting gaps in security and even indirectly attacking through trusted third parties. As organizations expand their digital operations, they increase their exposure to these threats.
Many organizations assume they’re too small or insignificant to be targeted, but that assumption can be a dangerous one. Even companies that aren’t directly targeted are at risk. Cybercriminals no longer discriminate based on size or industry; they look for weaknesses and exploit them wherever they find them. Ransomware as a service (RaaS) has lowered the barrier to entry so much that even those lacking technical skills can “pay to play.” Read our blog about RaaS.
Understanding cyber insurance in a ransomware landscape
Cyber insurance can provide financial protection against the fallout of ransomware, but it’s important to understand that it’s not a silver bullet. Insurance alone won’t save your business from downtime, data loss, or reputation damage. As we’ve seen with other types of insurance, such as property or health insurance, simply holding a policy doesn’t mean you’re immune to risks.
While cyber insurance is designed to mitigate financial risks, insurers are becoming increasingly discerning, often requiring businesses to demonstrate adequate cybersecurity controls before providing coverage. Gone are the days when businesses could simply "purchase" cyber insurance without robust cyber hygiene in place. Today’s insurers require businesses to have key controls such as multi-factor authentication (MFA), incident response plans, and regular vulnerability assessments.
Moreover, insurance alone doesn’t address the critical issue of data recovery. While an insurance payout can help with financial recovery, it can’t restore lost data or rebuild your reputation. This is where a comprehensive cybersecurity strategy comes in — one that encompasses both proactive and reactive measures, involving components like third-party data recovery software.
The role of insurability controls
To be insurable, organizations must meet certain cybersecurity criteria — what I like to call "insurability controls." These controls aren’t just a checklist to meet insurance requirements; they’re also essential elements of a comprehensive cybersecurity maturity framework. Key among them are:
- Multi-factor authentication (MFA): A foundational requirement for accessing sensitive data and systems.
- Endpoint detection and response (EDR): Modern cyber insurance often mandates advanced detection and response capabilities to quickly identify and mitigate threats.
- Backup and recovery systems: These systems are the last line of defense in ransomware attacks. Ensuring backups are immutable, tested regularly, and stored offsite (air gapped) can be the difference between full recovery and total disaster.
At Keepit, we emphasize the importance of ensuring your backups are not only frequent but also resilient. Regularly testing the recovery process is essential. Many organizations overlook this crucial step, only to discover their backups are either corrupt or ineffective when they need them most. Practicing recovery ensures you’ll be able to bring your systems back online with minimal impact in the event of an attack.
Defense in depth: Beyond cyber insurance
Insurance is a vital part of your risk management strategy, but it needs to be layered with other defenses. A "defense in depth" approach means deploying multiple layers of security controls throughout your organization, ensuring that even if one layer is compromised, others can still protect your critical data and operations. This includes:
- Employee training and awareness: Your staff is often the weakest link in your security chain. Ensuring they’re aware of phishing attacks and social engineering tactics is critical. Regular phishing campaigns and security awareness training should be a cornerstone of your strategy.
- Third-party risk management: Often, cyberattacks originate not from within your organization but through trusted third parties. It’s essential to vet your partners and ensure they adhere to the same security standards you do — and consider their sub-processors.
- Incident response and retainers: Having a well-developed incident response plan is crucial, but so is having a retainer with a third-party provider who can immediately step in to help in the event of an attack. This adds an additional layer of protection and ensures a faster response time.
- Data governance and classification: Understanding what data you hold, where it resides, and how critical it is to your operations will help you protect your most valuable assets. Ensure that you’ve got policies in place for classifying and safeguarding sensitive data. If you don’t know what to protect, how will you protect it?
Data governance: Identifying and protecting the crown jewels
At the heart of any effective cybersecurity strategy is robust data governance. Understanding what data you have, where it resides, and how it is classified is critical to protecting your organization’s most valuable assets. Many organizations fail at the first step of cybersecurity — data identification — because they haven’t fully mapped out their data environment. The NIST cybersecurity framework puts understanding and assessing cybersecurity posture as step one.
Effective data governance ensures that critical data is classified correctly, protected adequately, and monitored continuously. If your organization hasn’t yet mapped out its data environment, now is the time to start.
Engaging the board and leadership in cybersecurity strategy
One of the most challenging aspects of building a resilient cybersecurity program is obtaining buy-in from the executive team and board of directors. As CISO, it’s my responsibility to communicate the risks in terms that resonate with leadership: operational continuity, financial impact, and reputational risk.
Framing security investments as business-critical decisions helps drive the necessary financial and strategic support for comprehensive cybersecurity measures. It’s essential to engage the board by linking cyber resilience directly to business outcomes — such as maintaining customer trust, complying with regulations, and ensuring business continuity in the face of ransomware threats.
For many organizations, cybersecurity is still seen as an IT problem. But in reality, it’s a business risk that requires input from every level of the organization. Encouraging open dialogue between IT, security, and the board ensures that security measures are not only implemented but actively supported across the organization.
Conclusion
Cyber insurance plays an important role in mitigating the financial impact of ransomware attacks, but it’s by no means a complete solution — and insurers have many more requirements before any coverage is offered. Businesses must embrace a comprehensive, defense-in-depth approach that includes insurability controls, regular testing of backup and recovery systems, and ongoing communication with both employees and executives.
As ransomware continues to evolve, so too must our defenses. By building a cybersecurity maturity framework based on insurability controls, regular testing, and proactive measures, businesses can ensure that they not only meet insurance requirements but also create a truly resilient organization. Only by preparing for the inevitable can we ensure that our businesses not only survive but thrive in the face of cyberthreats.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/cyber-insurance/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T02:30:19+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Cyber insuranceâs role in ransomware recovery
In today’s cybersecurity landscape, ransomware is now a major threat across all sectors, and while prevention is key, effective mitigation is equally critical. That's where cyber insurance comes into play — it’s an important way to mitigate some of your most significant risks. Let’s look into the trends in ransomware, the state of cyber insurance, and the role of cyber insurance in ransomware mitigation.
The growing threat of ransomware
I think it’s safe to say that ransomware has evolved significantly over the years. What was once a sporadic threat has now become a persistent and pervasive risk for organizations worldwide. According to a recent ESG (Enterprise Strategy Group) report, “Lighting the way to readiness and mitigation,” 89% of enterprises consider ransomware one of the top five threats to their viability, highlighting the widespread concern that ransomware attacks can disrupt operations, compromise sensitive data, and result in significant financial losses.
One of the most striking trends in the ransomware landscape is the rapid increase in the number of identifiable ransomware groups — not entirely unlike the early days of the automotive industry where a small number of manufacturers eventually grew into a large, competitive market through new entries, consolidation, and expansion.
Similarly, the ransomware market has expanded as new threat actors emerge, gain success, and attract attention. While some of these ransomware groups are eventually shut down, others continue to thrive, contributing to an alarming 55% year-over-year growth in ransomware attacks.
The financial incentive driving ransomware
Just as with other forms of cybercrime, ransomware threat actors are motivated by the potential for substantial financial rewards. When people have a financial incentive to do something bad, they’re often going to do that thing. And since there’s a lower barrier to entry in the ransomware market than ever before — especially when utilizing options such as ransomware as a service (RaaS) — almost anyone with a basic understanding of technology and a desire to make money can participate. 
This has led to a proliferation of ransomware groups, each looking to capitalize on the lucrative opportunities that cyber extortion presents. According to a Reuters report, ransomware generated over $1 billon USD in 2023 alone.
Geopolitical factors also play a role in ransomware activity. Some countries are known to harbor, or at best ignore, ransomware gang activities in their countries, and there’s evidence of state-sponsored ransomware attacks, too. All of these attacks share a primary focus: Generating revenue through ransomware.
Looking at the graph above, geopolitical factors seem to be a plausible explanation for 2022 — the year Russia invaded Ukraine — being an anomalously slow year regarding generating ransomware revenue. And in 2023, a historically high peak, representing a 140 percent growth from 2022, according to Statista.
The role of cyber insurance
Because you can’t guarantee that you won’t be able to prevent every attack, cyber insurance has become an essential component of an organization's risk management strategy. While it is not a substitute for robust cybersecurity measures, cyber insurance helps organizations mitigate the financial fallout from a ransomware attack.
Of US organizations polled, 58% reported either opting in to one or more cyber-insurance policies or planning to do so in the next 12 months to mitigate their ransomware risk.
The cyber insurance market has evolved significantly in recent years. Initially, obtaining cyber insurance was relatively simple; businesses could secure a policy with minimal requirements. However, as the frequency and severity of ransomware attacks have increased, insurance companies have raised their standards.
As a result, there are new hurdles for businesses to overcome. Escalating rates, additional cybersecurity requirements, and limitations in coverage all make it more difficult for many organizations to acquire insurance. More than half of those surveyed have reported difficulties meeting underwriter cybersecurity requirements to acquire a policy. Today, insurers require organizations to demonstrate a certain level of cybersecurity maturity before they can qualify for coverage.
These controls include key items such as multi-factor authentication (MFA), endpoint detection and response (EDR) solutions, and robust backup systems. Put bluntly, you cannot get an insurance policy without implementing the controls your insurer expects to see.
The state of cyber insurance
As cyberthreats continue to evolve, so does the cyber insurance market. As I mentioned, insurance companies are now paying closer attention to how organizations manage data security and privacy, particularly in light of emerging technologies like artificial intelligence (AI). Insurers are beginning to ask more detailed questions about how AI is being used within organizations and how it’s being incorporated into detection and response capabilities.
Moreover, cyber insurance policies are increasingly being tailored to the specific needs of organizations. This includes offering proactive tools that can help organizations prepare for and respond to ransomware attacks. For example, some policies now include coverage for tabletop exercises, incident response planning, and access to breach coaches and specialized vendors.
The importance of a holistic approach to cybersecurity
I want to emphasize that cyber insurance should be viewed as one component of a broader, defense-in-depth strategy. Relying solely on insurance to mitigate the impact of a ransomware attack is not sufficient. Instead, organizations must adopt a holistic approach to cybersecurity that includes strong preventive measures, regular testing, and a clear understanding of their risk landscape.
The importance of communication and collaboration across the organization cannot be overstated. Cybersecurity is not just the responsibility of the IT department; it requires buy-in from the board of directors, management, and all employees. By fostering a culture of security awareness and ensuring that everyone understands their role in protecting the organization, companies can better defend against ransomware attacks.
Conclusion: The future of cyber insurance and ransomware mitigation
Ransomware remains a significant threat, but organizations can take proactive steps to protect themselves. By aligning cybersecurity practices with established frameworks, continuously testing and improving defenses, and incorporating cyber insurance into risk management strategies, organizations can better withstand the challenges posed by ransomware.
As the cyber insurance market continues to evolve, it’s crucial for organizations to stay informed about the latest developments and adjust their strategies accordingly. The ultimate goal is to create a resilient organization that can not only survive a ransomware attack but continue to thrive in the face of ever-changing cyberthreats.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/cyber-storage-dora/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-01-21T15:27:57+01:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Cyber storage and DORA: Why true backup is central to operational resilienceÂ
The Digital Operational Resilience Act (DORA) is now in force across the European Union, setting a new standard for how financial institutions manage ICT (information and communication technology) risk and ensure operational resilience.
DORA doesn’t just encourage resilience — it mandates it. For banks, insurers, investment firms, and other regulated entities, that means proving the ability to recover data quickly, completely, and securely after a disruption.
Yet not all “backups” meet that bar. Many organizations still rely on cloud snapshots or synchronized copies stored in the same logical infrastructure as production data. These may offer convenience, but they fall short of the true backup principles that DORA implies — especially around separation, immutability, and verifiable recovery.
At the heart of those principles is control: the ability to retain authority over your own data, regardless of what happens. This is where cyber storage becomes essential — not merely storing data but protecting it according to the resilience standards DORA now enforces.
What DORA actually requires
DORA doesn’t mention “cyber storage” by name, but its language — particularly in Article 12 — sets clear expectations that align with cyber storage fundamentals. Among the key provisions are:
- Organizations must establish backup systems governed by formal backup policies, including periodic testing and documented recovery procedures.
- Backup systems must be physically and logically segregated from the production ICT systems they protect.
- Restorations must preserve the integrity and confidentiality of data, with multiple checks and reconciliations to ensure accuracy.
- Recovery time and recovery point objectives (RTOs and RPOs) must be appropriate for critical functions and achievable even under severe disruption.
In short, DORA enforces a high bar: Backups must be resilient, verifiable, isolated, and capable of restoring operations safely and swiftly.
From backup to true backup
The term backup is widely used, but not always accurately. A synchronized copy in the same cloud or a versioned snapshot inside the same tenant is not a true backup. If a ransomware attack, cloud outage, or credential compromise affects your production environment, these copies are often just as vulnerable. Under DORA, that’s no longer acceptable.
A compliant backup must be physically and logically segregated from the production system
A compliant backup must be physically and logically segregated from the production system — and this is precisely the design principle behind true backup and the 3-2-1 rule: Three copies of data, on two different media, with one stored offsite.
In a SaaS and cloud-first world, this “offsite” element translates to independent infrastructure — an isolated environment built for immutability and recovery assurance, often referred to as air gapping. It also ensures that organizations stay in control of their data at all times — able to access, restore, and verify it independently, without relying on the same systems that might have failed.
That’s what defines cyber storage: a modern, purpose-built approach to backup that eliminates shared-risk dependencies and ensures that data remains recoverable, even when everything else fails.
It’s designed to be a proactive defense against threats like ransomware by embedding security measures such as immutability, anomaly detection, and access controls directly into the storage system itself.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/cyberstorage/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-02-17T10:32:31+01:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Cyber storage: The new standard for SaaS data protectionÂ
In today’s high-risk digital landscape, storing data isn’t enough. You need to protect it — actively, intelligently, and independently. At Keepit, we’ve redefined what data storage means for the cloud era. We don’t just offer storage. We deliver cyber storage: a dedicated, secure-by-design infrastructure built specifically to safeguard your SaaS data from the growing threat of cyber attacks and operational disruption.
Let me explain what that really means — and why it matters.
Independent and dedicated: The foundation of real resilience
Independence isn’t a buzzword. It’s a foundational requirement. Most backup solutions today are still entangled in the same infrastructure used for production data — especially when they rely on public cloud providers like Microsoft or AWS. That shared infrastructure model might look convenient on paper, but it creates a single point of failure in practice.
Keepit is different. We’re vendor-independent by design. Our cloud doesn’t live inside the same hyperscaler platforms it’s meant to protect you from. We built our own infrastructure from the ground up, and we own every layer — from hardware to application. That means we’re not at the mercy of another company’s supply chain, network behavior, or internal vulnerabilities.
What does “dedicated” mean in this context? It means that once your data enters a Keepit region, it never leaves that region. Your backups are replicated across two data centers in that region, ensuring not just compliance with data sovereignty but maximum resilience in the face of regional outages.
Cyber storage = Storage + Protection
Data storage alone doesn’t equal data protection. Cyber storage does. That’s why Keepit combines long-term, efficient backup storage with built-in, proactive protection mechanisms.
Our architecture is immutable by default. Once backup data enters our system, it’s immediately encrypted and can’t be altered — not by us, not by your admins, not by attackers. There’s also a 30-day delete lock on all data, protecting against accidental deletion, insider threats, and ransomware tactics.
And we don’t stop there. Our Merkle tree-based architecture ensures that every version of your data is intact, accessible, and verifiable — without relying on legacy full/incremental backup structures. We call it “incremental forever,” and it gives you access to every backup like it’s a full snapshot, while minimizing load and risk.
Security first, Zero Trust always
Security isn’t a feature — it’s our architecture. Keepit is secure by design. We’ve embedded Zero Trust principles across our platform, infrastructure, and operations.
Let’s be clear: Zero Trust isn’t a checklist. It’s a mindset — and a moving target. You start with identity and context. You assume breach. And you design controls that minimize exposure at every level: user, device, network, application, and data.
From a Keepit perspective, this means role-based access controls, strict SAML-based identity management, secure device access, and IP-based controls at the platform level. It means nobody — not even Keepit employees — can access customer data unless explicitly authorized.
It also means we can help our customers move closer to their own Zero Trust goals by ensuring the storage layer doesn’t become a blind spot. When storage is also part of your protection posture, Zero Trust has a stronger backbone.
Full stack control = Full stack visibility
Most vendors outsource key parts of their operations to hyperscalers. Keepit doesn’t. We own our entire stack. That gives us unmatched visibility into performance, anomalies, and potential risks—across software, hardware, and operations.
With our Anomaly Detection Dashboard, we flag suspicious patterns like spikes or drops in backup volume, mass deletions, or unexpected behavior across monthly snapshots. It’s built-in threat monitoring — not a bolt-on tool — and it’s tuned to detect precisely the kinds of subtle threats that evade traditional alerting systems.
This is part of our intelligent threat monitoring and instant response framework. Because when you own the stack, you don’t just wait for threats to appear — you go find them.
Built-in risk governance
We’ve built governance into the core of our product — not layered it on as compliance theater. Our secure and logged access controls offer fine-grained administrative roles, auditable logs, and immutable audit trails accessible through the platform or via integration with your SIEM (e.g., Splunk or Microsoft Sentinel).
And with no sub-processors and no third-party access to data, we eliminate weak links in the chain. Everything stays in-region, encrypted, and controlled.
Why cyber storage now?
The reality is, businesses are under siege. You’re managing more data across more platforms, and the threat landscape is getting more sophisticated by the day. Breaches, insider threats, supply chain compromise — it’s all in play.
Traditional backup models weren’t designed for this world. They assume trust where there shouldn’t be any. They treat storage as a static, low-risk layer. We know better. At Keepit, we’ve built cyber storage as an active participant in your cyber resilience strategy. Not just something you “have” — but something you use to stay protected, stay operational, and stay in control.
To wrap up: The storage story has changed
Cyber attacks don’t discriminate. They don’t wait. And they don’t stop at the edge of your infrastructure. Your backups need to be more than safe — they need to be ready. That’s why cyber storage is the new standard.
At Keepit, we live and breathe data protection. That’s why we didn’t build on someone else’s cloud. We built our own. Because your data deserves its own home — and your organization deserves a partner that’s all-in on keeping it safe.
Ready to shift from traditional storage to cyber storage? Our factsheet, “Cyber storage by Keepit: The future of backup,” explores how Keepit’s cyber storage redefines backup and helps companies address common challenges.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/data-and-digital-sovereignty/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T02:48:39+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Data and digital sovereignty: Who is in control of your data
Understanding digital sovereignty
Digital sovereignty extends beyond data to encompass control over the entire digital infrastructure — hardware, software, and data. It represents an organization's ability to manage and control its digital environment independently, ensuring autonomy and security in a constantly shifting cyber landscape. With global cloud adoption surging, the conversation around digital sovereignty has never been more relevant.
By 2025, 30% of multinational companies are expected to face significant impacts from unmanaged digital sovereign risks. This statistic underlines the growing urgency for IT leaders to ask themselves critical questions: What are your plans to ensure both digital and data sovereignty? Are you prepared to build a robust, secure digital infrastructure that respects and enforces these principles?
Sovereign cloud challenges
The journey to digital sovereignty is not without its challenges. Organizations must consider:
- Data: Where is your data stored? Who has access to it? How is it managed?
- Operations: Are your operational practices aligned with local and international data policies?
- Infrastructure/technology: Is your technology stack independent and resilient against foreign influence?
- Local vs. foreign compliance: Are you compliant with both local and international data laws?
- Residency and monitoring: Can you guarantee data residency in specific locations while maintaining transparent monitoring?
These challenges are not just theoretical; they represent real risks and vulnerabilities for global businesses. Control, privacy, audit trails, and technology independence are not just aspirations — they are necessities for resilient digital operations.
Keepit's role in achieving digital sovereignty
Where traditional SaaS data protection vendors rely heavily on third-party infrastructure, Keepit takes a radically different approach. Keepit has full control over both the data and management planes, which are physically and logically separated from production workloads.
This unique architecture means that Keepit controls cost, functionality, security, performance, management, operations, and integration — ensuring that customers are not at the mercy of hyperscalers or foreign policies.
For IT leaders, this means autonomy. It means knowing exactly where your data is, who is handling it, and how it is being protected — free from third-party influence. In an era where sovereignty risks are growing, Keepit stands as a beacon of control and reliability.
The path forward
Digital sovereignty is not a checkbox; it's a journey. For IT leaders, the time to act is now. Engage with infrastructure and operations leaders, discuss how Keepit can help secure and manage your data with full sovereignty. Understand the risks of unmanaged sovereignty and be proactive in securing your organization's digital future.
Next steps: Selecting the right data protection vendor
The next step in your sovereignty journey is selecting the right data protection partner. Here are key guidelines to consider:
- Control and ownership: Ensure the provider has complete control over its data and management planes. This eliminates third-party risks and ensures that you remain compliant with local and international data regulations.
- Physical and logical separation: Look for vendors that guarantee physical and logical separation from production workloads — like Keepit does.
- Transparency and auditability: Verify that the solution provides transparent audit trails and compliance monitoring.
- Cost and performance control: Choose a vendor that allows you to predict and manage costs effectively while maintaining optimal performance.
- Regulatory alignment: Ensure the provider is aligned with local laws and global standards to avoid legal complications.
Choosing the right vendor is crucial for mitigating digital sovereign risks and ensuring data remains protected and compliant.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/data-compliance/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:34:15+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Data compliance makes third-party security a must
The very mention of data governance and compliance can send shivers down the spines of corporate IT professionals, particularly for those who recognize they aren’t ready to handle a major data breach or other situation that compromises mission-critical data.
The increased focus on data compliance creates even more headaches as state and federal regulations are constantly changing, adding more pressure to comply as a means to avoid a regulatory audit and the unpredictability of a public relations nightmare.
Why is regulatory compliance so important?
The answers can vary from company to company but protecting mission-critical data is not only necessary for business continuity, failure to comply can lead to financial and legal exposure such as lawsuits, fines, settlements, certification losses, and data breaches. Some estimates say compliance failures cost businesses nearly $1.5 billion annually and growing.
If you believe data compliance won’t adversely affect your company, look at these real-world examples of what can happen:
- Target Corporation agreed to an $18.5 million settlement with 47 states for its 2013 holiday data breach where cybercriminals stole $40 million in credit and debit records.
- Uber’s sub-par handling of its 2016 data breach that impacted 57 million rider and driver accounts cost the company almost $150 million.
- Equifax lost over $575 million in 2017 when it failed to fix a critical vulnerability that compromised the financial and personal information of over 150 million individuals.
- Marriott International received a $124 million fine from the General Data Protection Agency in 2018 when a cyber incident dating back to 2014 containing over 338 million guest records came to light.
The solution? Deploy a third-party cloud backup service
For companies committed to minimizing or avoiding these risks, it pays to be nimble and prepared particularly since data backup and recovery are so inextricably linked to compliance. Think, for example, how difficult it would be to pass an audit with missing data.
So, who is ultimately responsible for data backup and recovery? If you believe it’s your cloud service provider, think again. You may be surprised to learn that most SaaS vendors don’t automatically back up data for long periods and lack critical, built-in security measures to protect data. While they may be able to back up some of your data during a breach incident, most lack the ability to quickly and easily recover your data and make it immediately accessible.
That’s why third-party backup and recovery services like Keepit are your best bet to ensure business continuity, stay in compliance, and keep costs predictable.
Part of what makes Keepit’s backup and recovery solution so effective is how we deploy blockchain technology, which makes it possible to achieve data immutability to meet increasing compliance standards without having costs skyrocket.
Blockchain has gained market familiarity and acceptance in the cryptocurrency industry like Bitcoin and Ethereum because its hashing technology helps improve transparency and data security around distributed transactions.
One of blockchain’s drawbacks with cryptocurrency, however, is authentication, which is slow and resource demanding. Keepit’s solution, on the other hand, features all the benefits of blockchain technology but is fast and doesn’t consume expensive resources. This, in turn, makes achieving compliance much easier and more convenient.
How to increase your focus on compliance
So, what's the fastest and most cost-effective third-party data protection your company can deploy? Enter the Keepit cloud.
Because it is built on secure, blockchain-verified technology, Keepit ensures data remains immutable and tamperproof – always. This is important for compliance because with immutable data and metadata, it’s possible to document and recover not just all data but all data processing, further ensuring that auditors have full visibility to everything that has impacted the data.
Learn more about how Keepit's compliance features can help your company quickly recover from any data loss event – even ransomware attacks – to keep your company’s data always secure, always available, and always compliant with the latest regulations.
Keepit is a dedicated backup and recovery service providing your company with secure cloud data backup for the core SaaS applications, including Microsoft 365, Salesforce, and Google Workspace.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/data-governance-checklist/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T02:48:42+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Data governance checklist: Turning strategy into actionÂ
This is the fifth and final article in our blog series based on our data governance report. Throughout this series, we’ve explored how governance helps manage data through its lifecycle, strengthens resilience, and fuels compliance and business growth.
Now it’s time to bring it all together — and put governance into practice.
This blog introduces a practical framework/checklist designed to help organizations move from intention to execution. Whether you’re just getting started or refining a mature program, the model outlined here offers a clear way to assess priorities, identify gaps, and scale governance with confidence.
Governance doesn’t start with technology — it starts with structure
A governance program can’t succeed without clarity on goals, ownership, risk, and accountability. That’s why a structured framework is essential — not to add complexity, but to cut through it.
In Keepit's data governance report, we provide three interconnected governance lenses, each supported by 10 critical checklist questions. Below, we outline the key areas these questions cover.
1. Framework readiness: Establishing the foundation for governance
Before governance can scale, it needs a solid foundation. This checklist can help you assess if your organization has the right structures, policies, and oversight to support and sustain governance. It focuses on:
- Clear governance roles and responsibilities
- Policy enforcement and standardization
- Classification, privacy, and retention frameworks
- Regulatory alignment and auditability
- Mechanisms for continuous review and improvement
2. Classification strategy: Organizing data to reduce risk and increase value
Governance depends on knowing what data you have and treating it accordingly. This checklist helps define a fit-for-purpose classification model — one that supports access control, automation, and downstream compliance. It includes:
- Mapping data types, sources, and storage locations
- Assessing sensitivity and access risk
- Defining classification categories and metadata tagging
- Supporting tools and automation capabilities
- KPIs to monitor classification effectiveness
3. Board-level alignment: Elevating governance to a strategic business function
For governance to succeed, it must be visible at the top. This checklist helps ensure governance is not just operational — it’s strategic. It supports board engagement by emphasizing:
- Acknowledgement of the risk management process (part of NIS2)
- Leadership’s understanding of governance goals
- Framing governance in terms of business value and risk
- Communicating maturity, cost, and ROI
- Enabling cross-functional alignment
- Reporting and collaboration at the executive level
Use the checklist to spark internal conversations
These questions aren’t just for IT or compliance — they’re designed to be cross-functional. You can use them in workshops, planning sessions, or executive briefings to create alignment and drive accountability.
Most importantly, they turn governance from an abstract concept into a shared capability.
Before implementing a governance framework, organizations need leadership buy-in. The checklists can help guide discussions at the executive level.
Conclusion: From questions to execution
A checklist alone won’t build a governance program — but the right questions will move you from assumptions to action. Organizations should use these checklists as a starting point, adapting them to their specific needs.
Next step: Assess your current governance framework — which gaps need to be filled?
Get the report for the three checklists and all 30 questions in an interactive format — and build a governance framework that fits your business.
Wrapping up the data governance blog series
This article concludes our five-part blog series based on the Intelligent Data Governance report. If you’ve followed along, you now have a clearer understanding of how governance strengthens lifecycle control, resilience, and strategic growth.
1. Part 1: Intelligent data governance
2. Part 2: Data lifecycle
3. Part 3: Resilience against corruption and disruption
4. Part 4: Data governance fuels growth and compliance

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/data-governance-enables-growth/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T02:48:36+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

How data governance fuels growth and compliance
Data governance is often framed as a costly technical obligation — a necessary framework for compliance, risk mitigation, and operational control. And while that’s true, it’s far from the whole picture.
For organizations looking to grow, governance is not just guardrails — it’s infrastructure. It’s the structure that enables companies to move faster without losing control, to scale without introducing chaos, and to unlock the full value of their data without compromising compliance. Governance isn’t just about doing things right; it’s about making sure the organization can do more — and with confidence.
This article is part four of our five-part series based on the Intelligent data governance report. In this installment, we explore how governance supports growth — not just by protecting data, but by making it more usable, more trusted, and more strategic.
Data governance unlocks confident decision-making
Every organization collects more data than it knows what to do with. But volume alone doesn’t create value — usability does. And usability depends on structure: Knowing where data lives, how critical it is, who owns it, and whether or not it can be trusted.
Without governance, teams often waste time second-guessing data sources, reconciling conflicting reports, or duplicating work because there’s no shared language or system of ownership. Decision-making slows down. Trust erodes. Innovation slips without confident footing.
Governance introduces the necessary consistency. Classification, access policies, and ownership models help turn raw data into something organizations can rely on. And when people trust the data, they use it — to make faster, more accurate decisions that drive the business forward.
Efficiency starts with visibility and control
Data governance also reduces friction. In organizations without clear governance, data sprawl becomes a silent cost: Duplicate records, orphaned datasets, and outdated systems create noise that slows operations and increases security risks and compliance complexity.
By implementing governance policies that enforce visibility and control, organizations can clean up that sprawl and reclaim focus. When data is managed centrally and transparently, it becomes easier to eliminate redundant systems, reduce unnecessary storage costs, and streamline internal processes.
This isn’t just a back-office win — it’s what creates the operational agility to pursue new initiatives, adopt emerging technologies, and respond quickly to changing cybersecurity and business demands, including evolving regulatory requirements.
Growth without compromising compliance
One of the most powerful aspects of governance is its ability to scale with the organization — particularly when it comes to compliance.
Growing businesses often face a familiar tension: The desire to innovate and expand goes up against increasing (and more demanding) regulatory requirements. Governance bridges that gap. It ensures that compliance is embedded into the day-to-day way data is handled, rather than being tacked on at the end of a project or rollout.
Retention policies, access controls, audit logging — these aren’t just technical settings; they’re part of a broader governance strategy that keeps organizations in alignment with regulations like GDPR, HIPAA, NIS2, and others, without blocking innovation.
With governance in place, compliance becomes something you prove by design, not by scramble.
Scalable structure for sustainable growth
As organizations scale, their data environments become more complex. New tools are introduced, teams expand, acquisitions happen — and without governance, that complexity can quickly turn into fragility and vulnerability.
Governance provides the foundation to absorb that complexity and build true resilience. It makes it easier to integrate new systems, manage access as roles change, and preserve institutional knowledge as people come and go. A well-governed environment gives growing companies the ability to maintain consistency and control, even as the pace of change accelerates.
This isn’t just operationally valuable — it signals maturity to customers, partners, and regulators. In many industries, demonstrating a strong governance posture has become a prerequisite for doing business at scale, as well as in insurability controls.
Conclusion: A strategic investment, not just a safeguard
Data governance isn’t just about staying compliant or minimizing risk — it’s about creating the conditions for smarter, faster, and more strategic decisions across your organization. When data is well-governed, teams work with confidence, leaders act on insight, and innovation has room to grow.
From classification to collaboration, governance connects the dots between operational control and business growth. And as organizations take on more data, more AI, and more regulatory pressure, a clear governance framework is no longer a nice-to-have — it’s a strategic asset.
Download the report to explore practical guidance, examples, and tools to help you build a data governance program that supports resilience and drives growth.
This article is part four of a five-part blog series inspired by our new report, Intelligent data governance: Why taking control of your data is key for operational continuity and innovation. You can find other articles in the series below.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/data-governance-report/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T02:52:16+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Intelligent data governance: Why IT decision-makers should control their data
Data control is the foundation for everything — from implementing new technologies like AI to ensuring cyber resilience and compliance. Intelligent data governance equips organizations with tools to lay a sustainable foundation for business continuity.
The evolving cybersecurity landscape
Through speaking with IT leaders around the world, I’ve found that one of the main issues facing modern organizations is data governance — and, naturally, the question of how to approach it efficiently while addressing today’s cybersecurity demands.
These firsthand experiences align with findings from qualitative research Keepit conducted a few months ago. We interviewed 30 senior IT leaders across different industries about the critical role data control plays in business resilience.
Our research revealed that CIOs and CISOs understand the increasingly vital roles they play in ensuring business continuity and resilience amid ever-evolving threat landscape. They also recognize the immense effort required to prioritize tools, resources, and tasks to establish and maintain strong data governance for long-term business continuity.
Rather than just outlining their concerns and challenges, we went a step further: We created a report to help CIOs and CISOs navigate data resilience in their organizations. It provides actionable guidance on implementing a sustainable data governance framework — along with the reasoning behind it.
The report, “Intelligent data governance: Why taking control of your data is key for operational continuity and innovation,” serves as a valuable and in-depth resource for building cyber resilience.
Defining data governance and data classification
So, what is data governance and how does it relate to cyber resilience?
Existing under the broad umbrella of data management, data governance is a program — implemented via policies and standards — intended to ensure the availability, quality, and security of an organization’s data in accordance with applicable regulations and obligations (e.g., adhering to industry standards, fulfilling requirements for certifications, etc.).
Within data governance, data classification is the process of separating and organizing data into relevant groups (“classes”) based on their shared characteristics, such as the level of sensitivity, risks they present, and the compliance regulations that protect them.
Data governance underpins cyber resilience plans
An intelligent data governance program delivers several beneficial outcomes for organizations:
- It helps to ensure the availability, quality, and security of an organization’s data, making it a foundational pillar of business continuity.
- Data governance helps improve overall data accuracy and impacts outcomes based on that data — which can range from comparatively simple day-to-day business decisions and operations to more complex, forward-looking initiatives including AI-focused programs.
- It helps to support organizational efforts to comply with regulations and other obligations, making it a cornerstone of compliance.
- An effective data governance program also permeates the entire organization, increasing data literacy, data accessibility, and data scalability.
Do you know where your data is?
Of course, disaster recovery planning cannot start without a clear understanding and mapping of your data and its significance to your business. What data is crucial for us to continue running our operations? Who needs access to which data to do their job? Where do we store all of this critical data?
Knowing the answers to these questions will start your journey towards ensuring continuity in cases of data loss or cyberattacks. This is achieved through an efficient and effective data governance framework.
I hope that, with our new report in hand, CISOs and CIOs will be able to future-proof their modern, data-driven enterprises through effective data governance.
About Keepit’s new report, “Intelligent data governance: Why taking control of your data is key for operational continuity and innovation.”
Our report takes a practical approach to data governance by offering a resource to organizations for creating or adopting a framework that works best for them.
Key takeaways from the report:â¯
-Major trends shaping enterprise ITâ¯
-The importance of “always-on” dataâ¯
-Resilience against data loss and corruptionâ¯
-Data governance as an investmentâ¯
-A practical approach to data governanceâ¯
-10 questions for board discussions

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/data-governance-resilience/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T02:52:16+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

How data governance builds resilience against corruption and disruption
In the previous blog, we explored how data moves through its lifecycle — from creation to deletion. But managing data effectively is only part of the challenge; organizations must also ensure that data remains available, secure, and resilient against disruptions at every stage.
Resilience is not just about recovery, it requires proactive governance to prevent, detect, and respond to risks such as cyberattacks, accidental deletion, misconfigurations, and infrastructure failures.
A well-structured data governance framework bakes resilience into every stage of the data lifecycle, reducing the risk of disruptions and increasing the chance of a quick recovery when incidents do occur.
Data may be a strategic asset, but when systems go down — whether from human error, software bugs, misconfigurations, or cyberattacks — that asset quickly becomes a liability. In a digital-first world, organizations must be prepared not only to defend their data but also to recover it quickly and completely when something goes wrong.
And something will go wrong.
Why resilience matters more than ever
Outages and disruptions are more common than many leaders assume — and often for reasons that have little to do with cybercrime. According to Splunk’s report, “The Hidden Costs of Downtime,” 56% of downtime incidents stem from security issues (like phishing), while 44% are tied to application or infrastructure failures. In both cases, human error is the leading cause and often the hardest to detect or remediate.
For modern CIOs and CISOs, resilience must be built in, and data governance has a vital role to play.
Three pillars of data resilience: Prevention, detection, and recovery
To ensure that data remains available, accurate, and secure, governance strategies should address three core components of resilience:
- Prevention: Building technical and procedural safeguards to maintain uptime and prevent data loss or corruption (e.g., robust architecture, access controls, SLAs).
- Detection: Identifying threats or outages quickly using log monitoring, real-time alerts, and integrity checks.
- Recovery: Having proven, tested, and executable processes to restore data and systems after a disruption.
Many organizations are strong on prevention and detection — but recovery is often underdeveloped and under-tested. That’s where governance can make the biggest difference.
What’s actually causing outages? (Hint: It’s not always attackers)
Cyberattacks make headlines — and they should. But most outages stem from more mundane issues:
- Power loss: 44%
- Network failure: 14%
- IT systems: 13%
- Cooling problems: 13%
- Third-party provider issues: 8%
Two recent, real-world examples drive this home:
- In May 2024, Australian pension fund UniSuper lost its entire Google Cloud account — including backups — due to a rare misconfiguration on Google’s side. The incident left over 647,000 members without access for nearly two weeks. What made recovery possible? A governance-aligned UniSuper had maintained an independent third-party backup.
- Just two months later, in July 2024, a faulty update from cybersecurity vendor CrowdStrike brought down an estimated 8.5 million Windows systems worldwide, in what’s now described as the largest IT outage in history.
Governance strategies must account for these non-malicious, high-impact events — and not just as IT risks. They’re operational, compliance, and board-level concerns.
Backup isn’t just an IT function — it’s a governance issue
When disruptions happen, recovery is what matters most. But too often, backup and recovery are still treated as technical insurance policies — set once and subsequently forgotten. To build real resilience, backup and recovery need to be governed. That means:
- Knowing where backups live, how they’re protected, and who can access them
- Ensuring backups are immutable and stored independently (offsite or in a separate cloud)
- Testing recovery regularly and realistically
- Making backup part of your compliance and governance discussions
For example, the NIS2 Directive (a major piece of cybersecurity legislation in the EU) explicitly requires “backup management and disaster recovery” as part of business continuity planning. That’s not just a technical checkbox — it’s an organizational obligation, with liability extending to leadership.
Governance makes this real by ensuring backup and recovery are:
- Defined
- Accountable
- Auditable
- Resourced
Resilience isn’t a hope — it’s a process
Too often, backup systems and recovery processes have been managed with a “set it and forget it” approach — organizations select a solution, define some processes, and then largely ignore them except for occasional surface-level checks.
But this hope-for-the-best approach isn’t good enough — not for your organization, and not for regulators. Resilience takes deliberate training and testing to build, maintain, and validate your ability to recover from a data loss or corruption event.
Training ensures every team member understands their role in recovery, so decisions can be made and workflows executed under pressure.
Testing goes beyond checking if a backup exists. It proves that full recovery is possible, even for complex, high-stakes systems. After all, an emergency is not the time to discover that a critical system now ingests data differently — or that a restore process fails.
Given the reality of limited resources, CIOs and CISOs must make strategic recovery choices. That means asking:
- Which data is most important to our operations?
- What systems need to be restored first?
- What are our compliance or contractual obligations?
These questions fall under data governance, not just IT operations. Governance ensures that recovery is not just possible, but purposeful.
Guidelines: How to test your recovery plan
Governance brings clarity and control to recovery planning. It ensures alignment with stakeholders, data prioritization, and realistic recovery plans. Backup alone doesn’t make you resilient. You also need to:
- Train your team — so they know their roles when recovery is needed
- Test your systems — so failures are found before a real crisis, and then make yourself heard. Share the findings with leadership and the organization to ensure issues are addressed.
- Prioritize your recovery plans — because not all data or systems are equally urgent
Effective recovery takes more than good intentions: It takes rigorous testing. These seven steps should be part of any governance-aligned disaster recovery program:
- Validate recovery capability — test that backups can restore critical data without data loss or corruption.
- Define acceptable downtime — align recovery time objectives (RTOs) with business needs.
- Test regularly — frequent testing helps uncover hidden gaps and builds confidence.
- Simulate different failure scenarios — recover individual files, entire databases, or full systems under pressure.
- Document and analyze results — capture what worked, what didn’t, and what to fix.
- Include relevant stakeholders — make recovery planning a cross-functional effort.
- Iterate and improve — update your plans and procedures based on findings and changes in your environment.
Following these testing guidelines strengthens your IT compliance posture and prepares your organization to face evolving cyberthreats with confidence.
Resilience is governance in action
Building resilience against data corruption and disruption is not about achieving perfection — it’s about ensuring you can recover quickly, efficiently, and confidently when things go wrong.
In a world of rising regulatory expectations and increasingly complex environments, backup and recovery must move from the server room to the boardroom.
That shift starts with governance — embedded at every stage of the data lifecycle.
Organizations that assess and align their governance, backup strategies, and detection capabilities will be better positioned to navigate uncertainty, ensure business continuity, and lead with confidence.
This article is part three of a five-part series based on our recent publication, “Intelligent data governance: Why taking control of your data is key for operational continuity and innovation.” You can find the other blogs in this series below.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/data-lifecycle-governance/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T02:52:16+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Data governance: Why control across the data lifecycle is essential for resilience
Data is an organization's most valuable asset, but without proper data governance, it can quickly become a liability.
Governance plays a crucial role in ensuring security, compliance, and availability of business-essential data, and key to data governance is an awareness of the data lifecycle. Without structured governance, organizations face data sprawl, security risks, regulatory non-compliance, and inefficiencies.
Maintaining access to uncorrupted data is essential — one of the primary objectives of today’s CIOs and CISOs. But effective data governance is about more than just protection; it’s also about agility and scalability.
A well-structured data governance framework gives organizations confidence in their data by providing full visibility and control, allowing them to make informed decisions, respond to cyberthreats and compliance changes, as well as scale operations without worry of losing control of their data.
The data lifecycle: Understanding how data moves
Data doesn’t just exist — it moves through different phases, requiring governance to ensure security, compliance, and usability at every stage. The data lifecycle model refers to the different stages data passes through from the time of its creation to the time of its deletion. There are, of course, variations to this lifecycle, but from a general organizational perspective, data is created, passed through several stages, and then ultimately, it ends when it’s deleted.
Organizations need to track and manage data across all its stages to ensure integrity, uninterrupted access, and compliance.
From creation to deletion, the core stages of the data lifecycle include:
- Creation
- Storage
- Usage
- Archival
- Deletion
Let’s look a bit more into each of the stages of the data lifecycle, defining what each stage means and what the particular data governance considerations are of that stage.
Stage 1: Creation — Data governance starts at the source
The data lifecycle begins when new data is either created or acquired. Data is either created internally (e.g., customer interactions, transactions, reports) or acquired externally (e.g., third-party integrations, surveys, AI models).
Data governance considerations at stage 1:
Classification and labeling: Immediately tagging data as public, confidential, or restricted to ensure proper handling.
Ownership and accountability: Assigning responsibility for data management from the start.
Security controls: Encrypting sensitive data before it’s stored or transmitted to prevent unauthorized access.
Regulatory compliance: Ensuring consent, legal agreements, and regulatory requirements (e.g., GDPR, HIPAA) are met before storing data.
Stage 2: Storage — keeping data secure, organized, and accessible
Once created, data must be securely stored and structured for easy retrieval and compliance. Classification ensures proper encryption and retention. Organizations use on-premises servers, cloud storage, hybrid environments, and databases to store data, which can lead to a high level of complexity in creating and deploying data storage solutions. Data governance helps mitigate data sprawl.
Data governance considerations at stage 2:
Access controls: Implementing role-based permissions to limit data access to only those who need it.
Data integrity checks: Preventing corruption through verification and monitoring.
Backup and redundancy: Ensuring resilience through immutable backups, geographic redundancy, and disaster recovery plans.
Retention policies: Determining how long data should be stored before archiving or deletion.
Stage 3: Usage — managing data responsibly
At this stage, data is actively accessed, processed, and modified for business operations, analytics, and AI models. Data classification helps prevent unauthorized access.
Data governance considerations at stage 3:
Data access monitoring: Using audit logs to track who accesses or modifies data.
Ensuring accuracy and consistency: Implementing data validation to prevent errors.
Preventing unauthorized sharing: Using DLP (Data Loss Prevention) tools to detect and block sensitive data leaks.
Regulatory compliance: Ensuring usage aligns with industry regulations (e.g., GDPR’s data processing requirements).
Stage 4: Archival — storing data for compliance and business continuity
Some data must be retained for legal or business reasons, but not all data should remain in storage. In fact, certain regulations mandate the deletion of data within or after a certain amount of time or request, such as the GDPR’s Article 17 “Right to Be Forgotten” (RTBF).
Data governance considerations at stage 4:
Defining retention policies (e.g., GDPR’s RTBF, industry-specific regulations): Internal and external compliance requirements will vary, so custom retention policies are important to accommodate varying data needs.
Retention compliance: Keeping data for the required duration (e.g., financial records must be retained for a specific period under regulations).
Ensuring future readability: Avoiding vendor lock-in by storing data in open formats to ensure long-term access.
Access restrictions: Limiting who can retrieve archived data to prevent accidental or unauthorized use.
Stage 5: Deletion — knowing when and how to remove data securely
The final stage of the data lifecycle is permanent data removal. Classification helps organizations determine which data should be retained and which should be securely deleted, ensuring compliance with relevant regulations and reducing unnecessary risk exposure.
Data governance considerations at stage 5:
Secure deletion methods: Using shredding, cryptographic erasure, or DoD-approved wiping techniques.
Regulatory compliance: Following retention policies, or other legal requirements, of any and all regulations, directives, or acts that are applicable, such as NIS2, DORA, and HIPAA.
Data disposal audits: Verifying that no sensitive data remains in backups, logs, or old storage devices.
Automation for lifecycle enforcement: Using governance policies to trigger automatic deletion of expired data.
Four key takeaways: Embedding governance in the data lifecycle
- Data classification is the foundation of governance. The first step in effective data governance is knowing what data you have, where it’s stored, and how it’s being handled. Without classification, security and compliance become guesswork rather than a targeted strategy — it’s hard to hit a target you’re not aiming at.
- Data governance isn’t only about security — it’s also about resilience. Having a well-structured, governance-first approach enhances cyber resilience by ensuring data is always protected, recoverable, and accessible. Organizations that take a proactive approach to governance throughout the data lifecycle can maintain better control, reduce risks, and streamline operations.
- A governance framework enables scalability. Instead of treating governance as a reactive measure, businesses should define clear policies for data management from creation to deletion, making it easier to manage the growing data volumes and ever-changing compliance requirements.
- Governance is a continuous process, not a one-time project. As businesses grow and regulations change, so should governance strategies. The key is to embed data governance across all stages of the data lifecycle to support long-term success.
Conclusion: A governance-first approach to data lifecycle management
Every business relies on data, but without governance, data can become a liability instead of an asset. Managing data throughout its lifecycle ensures security, compliance, and resilience. Organizations that take governance seriously reduce risks, improve efficiency, and enable innovation — not just today, but in the long run.
Governance is not a one-time initiative; it’s an evolving discipline. As business needs, technology, and compliance landscapes shift, governance strategies must keep pace. A structured approach — one that includes clear classification, access controls, and recovery strategies — not only protects data but also ensures business agility and operational confidence.
Ultimately, strong governance is more than just a security measure or compliance requirement — it’s a strategic enabler of business success. Companies that invest in governance today position themselves for long-term resilience, innovation, and growth, ensuring they can stay ahead of the complexities of an increasingly data-driven world with confidence.
What to learn more? This blog is part two of a five-part blog series on data governance (see the recommended blog articles below). For a deep dive, read our report, “Intelligent data governance: Why taking control of your data is key for operational continuity and innovation.”

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/data-protection-dashboard/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T02:52:17+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Keepitâs Data Protection Dashboard
Data backup and recovery in SaaS environments can be complex, but at Keepit, we’re continually simplifying the process. With our Data Protection Dashboard, we’re delivering real-time insights via one centralized hub, providing the visibility needed to help enterprises manage their backups across SaaS applications like Microsoft 365 and Salesforce with confidence.
Our mission with this project is pretty simple: We want to give our users a centralized hub for all application dashboards, thereby simplifying monitoring, license usage, and anomaly detection to enhance cyber resilience and security.
What is observability, and why does it matter?
In the context of data protection, observability refers to the ability to gain deep visibility into operations, enabling teams to detect, diagnose, and address issues quickly and effectively. This is especially important for ensuring the reliability and effectiveness of backup and restore processes in complex SaaS environments. With enhanced observability, enterprises can maintain confidence in their data protection strategies and stay resilient against potential disruptions.
This focus on observability is what drives Keepit’s latest innovation: The Data Protection Dashboard. By providing real-time insights into backup and restore operations, the dashboard delivers centralized visibility, helping enterprises manage their backups across SaaS applications like Microsoft 365 and Salesforce with ease and confidence. Moreover, Keepit ensures a seamless user experience by supporting flexible transitions between different types of dashboards, tailored to the specific focus of a task at hand.
What is Keepit's Data Protection Dashboard?
The Data Protection Dashboard is a workload-based tool designed to simplify and centralize the monitoring of all backups across SaaS environments. As a key aspect of observability, it provides real-time visibility into backup health, coverage, and integrity, offering actionable insights in one place. This centralized view enables users to monitor and manage backup and restore operations with ease, reducing complexity and enhancing operational efficiency.
A standout feature of the dashboard is its ability to support seamless transitions between different types of dashboards. This ensures a smooth user experience, allowing users to focus on specific tasks — whether it's troubleshooting, compliance reporting, or scaling data protection efforts — without losing context or accessibility.
This flexibility reduces the need for users to switch between multiple tools or interfaces, ensuring their workflow remains uninterrupted while managing various tasks like compliance reporting or troubleshooting.
By tailoring the experience to the needs of the task at hand, Keepit ensures flexibility while maintaining comprehensive observability.
Why is a centralized hub for monitoring important?
Today, users are juggling multiple dashboards, each tied to a specific connector. While these dashboards provide some insights, they rarely offer the comprehensive, centralized visibility needed to make informed decisions — particularly at scale — and this brings challenges to visibility and difficulties in managing more complex integrations. For enterprises, this approach is simply not scalable nor sustainable, and ultimately, it leads to uncertainty.
By consolidating backup monitoring into one unified view, our Data Protection Dashboard provides a clear picture of backup operations across connectors and applications, enabling teams to stay on top of their data protection strategies.
This dashboard is part of Keepit's ongoing effort to make observability more accessible and intuitive for our users, which ultimately strengthens data security and supports business continuity.
Key features of Keepit’s Data Protection Dashboard
1. Backup status overview
Gain quick insights into the operational state of your backups with a comprehensive status overview:
- Connector health status: Visual indicators highlight any critical issues.
- Snapshot activity insights: View the time of the latest snapshot, the number of snapshots created in the past 48 hours, and the total backup size.
- Recommended actions: Quickly identify and resolve issues at the connector level.
These insights ensure that your backup strategy stays on track, maintaining the resilience, compliance, and security of your data.
2. Backup coverage overview
This feature helps users identify potential gaps in their backup coverage, offering a granular view of data protection, and with historic insights:
- Workload division within applications: Displays selected workloads, such as Exchange or SharePoint, divided into individual areas within applications such as Microsoft 365 and Google Workspace.
- Coverage comparison: Highlights the number of units selected for backup versus those successfully covered, i.e., users can easily check if the coverage of the top-level SharePoint sites matches the selection. In this context, a "unit" refers to a specific entity, such as a top-level SharePoint site, while the "individual area" represents the overall SharePoint workload.
- Data size metrics: Provides details on the total size of each workload area.
This comparison ensures that enterprises can address any inconsistencies and maintain comprehensive data protection.
A note on retroactive data: The Data Protection Dashboard applies to backups created after its release date. Data backed up before the launch isn’t included in these new insights.
3. Backup integrity monitoring (coming soon)
Aimed at reducing vulnerabilities, this upcoming feature monitors items that are recurrently skipped during backups:
- Skipped items list: Identify and download a detailed list of consistently skipped items.
- Proactive insights: Pinpoint potential vulnerabilities and share findings with support teams if needed.
This feature is especially valuable for enterprises aiming to refine their backup strategies and ensure maximum data integrity.
Benefits: Why accessible data insights matter
For enterprises managing complex SaaS environments, time is critical, and risks are high. Accessible and intuitive insights are not just convenient — they’re essential to effective SaaS data protection. The insights from Keepit’s Data Protection Dashboard:
- Enable faster action: Provide real-time visibility into backup health and coverage so teams can respond to issues before they escalate into larger problems.
- Bridge the gap between complexity and usability: Simplify the management of SaaS environments with complex configurations, including role-based access controls, compliance requirements, and varied workloads, making it easier to monitor backup health, spot vulnerabilities, and ensure compliance.
- Support the shared responsibility model: Help SaaS customers take ownership of their data protection responsibilities by providing the tools they need to secure and recover data effectively.
- Align observability with resilience: Ensure users can quickly identify and resolve issues, maintaining the integrity of their data protection strategy and facilitating faster recovery.
- Reduce risk: Minimize the chances of missed backups, incomplete coverage, or skipped items that could result in data loss.
- Boost compliance: Provide clear metrics and reports to make demonstrating adherence to regulatory standards and internal policies easier.
- Simplify scaling: Keep monitoring manageable as the number of workloads and connectors grows, enabling data protection to scale without adding complexity.
Ultimately, accessible insights give enterprises the confidence to protect their data, recover quickly, and maintain compliance in even the most complex SaaS environments.
Building a foundation for resilience
With the Data Protection Dashboard, Keepit is addressing a key challenge for modern enterprises: How to gain real-time, actionable insights into backup operations while managing complex SaaS environments. By providing a centralized hub, we’re helping organizations move away from fragmented dashboards toward a more unified and reliable approach to data protection.
The new dashboard is not just a feature; it’s a reflection of our commitment to improving observability and empowering enterprises to safeguard their critical data with confidence. As we continue to refine and expand its capabilities, our users will have even more tools to strengthen their backup strategies and ensure business continuity.
Stay tuned for updates as we roll out additional features and enhancements to the Data Protection Dashboard.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/data-protection-day/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:30:47+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Protecting your data: Best practices for Data Protection Day
Data Protection Day — also known as Data Privacy Day — is an annual event observed on January 28 to raise awareness about the importance of protecting data and data privacy (think NIS Directive, NIS2 Directive, and GDPR).
It’s here to make data protection, such as SaaS data backup and recovery, top of mind—and for good reason.
Businesses must take the necessary measures to not only ensure the continuity of their operations and to protect themselves from the potentially catastrophic outcomes of a data loss event like ransomware, but to also comply with the increasingly strict demands from legislation such as the NIS2 Directive and the GDPR.
Why is data protection relevant?
As businesses increasingly move operations to software-as-a-service (SaaS) applications to streamline their operations, add flexibility (such as enabling remote work), and reduce operational costs, huge amounts of business-critical cloud data are produced every day, and it becomes ever more important to assess and ensure a robust backup and recovery plan is in place.
There is a widely shared assumption that data stored in a SaaS cloud is automatically backed up and secure since it’s in the cloud. However, that is not always the case as what is offered may not provide the protection necessary for business continuity, data restoration, or compliance: Read more about the M365 shared responsibility model.
Cloud data concerns
It should come as no surprise that working with cloud services can come with risks. Ransomware and disaster recovery are more and more frequently in the headlines and serve as cautionary tales. (Read our post about the disruptive power of ransomware attacks here.)
The rapid adoption of SaaS applications has also come with new and increased instances of data loss and breaches—especially in cases where there is a lag between adoption of SaaS apps and adoption of the necessary data protection. Companies may be left vulnerable to costly disruptions, downtime, and devastating fines without an adequate data security plan in place to safeguard mission-critical cloud data.
What needs to be backed up?
Data protection not only involves “just” backing up cloud SaaS data, but it should also focus on ensuring control of and continuous access to it (and the right access for the correct users at that). As with Microsoft 365 and Azure AD (Active Directory), there is a data plane and a control plane – and both need to be protected.
One way to achieve this is to adopt a solution that can not only protect the data plane but can also preserve and protect the control plane, e.g., the admin center. Coverage of identity and application objects businesses rely on to remain operational is vital. For those using Microsoft 365, it’s important to learn about why you also need Azure AD data protection: Find out why in our AAD blog here.
How do businesses protect their data?
The best way to mitigate the risks of SaaS is to implement a data protection and management plan. This can involve using cloud-based data backup and recovery solutions which allow businesses to store their data in an independent cloud and access it from anywhere, at any time.
Data protection is especially important for businesses that rely on SaaS data for their operations, which is many, many businesses (Microsoft 365 alone has over 345 million users), as it can help ensure that data is always available, even if there is a disruption with the SaaS provider.
While cloud services can (and do) provide many benefits for businesses, they also present their own set of risks. For example, there is a very real risk that data stored in the cloud could be accessed by unauthorized parties (read our blog about the Zero Trust Principle here), or that data could be lost due to any number of issues, from technical glitches and issues to human error. Therefore, it’s important for companies to follow cloud data protection best practices. Read about backup strategy here.
Data risks and responsibility
But why is backing up SaaS data so important? Because it allows companies to mitigate the effects of ransomware and other data loss events. Many SaaS providers (e.g., Google, Microsoft, Salesforce) have shared responsibility models that state you, the customer, are responsible for the data created and processed.
Here are a few reasons why backup is vital:
1. Data breaches can happen to anyone
While no company is immune to data breaches, having a backup solution in place can help minimize (or even nullify) the impact of a breach, helping businesses get up and running again quickly.
2. Data loss can be costly
Losing data can lead to lost productivity and lost revenue within the company, and it can even result in substantial legal penalties. (Read our NIS2 post here.) According to the World Economic Forum, “historically severe fines for data loss are also helping change the cost-benefit assessment around investment in cybersecurity measures.” By implementing a backup solution, businesses can minimize the impact of data loss, avoid fines, and get back to business as usual faster, and more comprehensively, than without.
3. The future is uncertain
A bit cliché, but it’s impossible to predict the future and that includes the risks to your data. According to the ESG (Enterprise Strategy Group) ransomware e-Book, “79% of respondent organizations report having experienced a ransomware attack within the last year.” By implementing a backup solution now, businesses can protect themselves against potential risks down the road – which stand to only increase.
Where to go from here?
Data Protection Day reminds us that SaaS data (and the protection of it) is essential to many daily operations. Not only that, with the scope and penalties of NIS2 and GDPR, enterprises are obligated to ensure a dedicated data protection solution is in place.
Researching a third-party backup solution like Keepit can simplify the complexity of the current SaaS data protection environment. Businesses can maintain control of their data always and protect themselves against data loss events and mitigate the impacts of breaches and ransomware – all while remaining compliant.
Don’t wait until it’s too late — what better way to celebrate Data Protection Day than to start backing up your SaaS data. Continue your journey by exploring our free e-guide “Leading SaaS Data Security: Raising the Bar for Data Protection in the Cloud Era.”

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/data-resilience-and-regulations/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T02:52:16+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

You donât choose resilience â you earn it
I have a confession to make: I don’t love regulations. There, I said it.
But here’s the thing — whether we love them or not, regulations are coming for all of us. Some of you are already feeling the heat, while others are waiting for the inevitable knock on the door.
So, let’s talk about it. Why do regulations keep piling up? What do they mean for data protection? And, most importantly, what should you actually do about it?
Regulations: Why should you care?
The first time I gave a talk about regulatory pressure in data protection, it was to a European audience — folks who already live under strict regulations. The question of why you, as someone reading this (quite possibly from North America, given our website statistics), should care really splits along those same lines:
- If you’re in Europe, there are clear legal requirements you must meet.
- If you’re elsewhere, regulatory regimes may not be as advanced, but that doesn’t mean you don’t have to care.
- No matter where you are, the one constant of regulation is that it always spreads and increases. You may not be regulated today but that promises nothing for tomorrow.
Regardless of where you are, there are three key questions every organization should be asking:
1. Are you currently subject to any regulations around data retention, backup, disaster recovery, or business continuity? Even if you don’t think you are, dig deeper. Industry-specific requirements exist too, and regulators love broad interpretations.
2. Is your regulatory environment changing? This is hard to anticipate. In the U.S., the regulatory regime is, to put it lightly, unsettled. Nobody really knows what the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), for example, is going to prioritize in terms of enforcement. In Europe, though, the trends are pretty clear: Regulators are prioritizing regulations, and enforcement, around cybersecurity, data protection, and resilience.
3. Can you justify your current approach to data protection? Whether required by law or not, you should be able to defend your decisions regarding disaster recovery and data protection, especially if your business operates in multiple regions.
The scope of regulatory burden
Let’s look at the numbers. In 2023, the EU produced nearly 1,600 new adopted regulations and modified almost 800 existing ones. Even if 2024 numbers end up being only half of that, it’s still a significant regulatory burden.
In the U.S., these numbers are harder to track because regulations vary by state and industry. For example, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) has 136 pages of rules just covering data governance and retention — one regulatory authority, for one specific segment of financial services. Multiply that by state and federal regulators in different industries (and add in EU-centric regulations that apply to U.S. companies doing business in or with the EU) and you get another large number.
The actual number of regulations almost doesn’t matter — it’s the rate of change that matters, and that rate is increasing.
The cloud changed everything — so did backup
Let's turn away from talking about regulations for a second and return to a discussion of data protection. For decades, the 3-2-1 backup rule was the gold standard:
- Three copies of your data
- Two different storage media
- One copy offsite
That worked great in the days of on-prem data centers and physical tape backups. But today, in a cloud-first world, that rule needs an update.
Here’s what modern 3-2-1 looks like:
- Three copies of your data: One production copy, two backup copies
- Two distinct security boundaries: Not just two locations, but separate security environments
- One immutable copy: At least one backup that cannot be altered or deleted, period
Regulators are catching on to this shift. They’re no longer satisfied with “Yes, we have backups.” They want proof that you can restore data quickly, securely, and without risk of tampering.
And if you think your SaaS provider has you covered, let me stop you right there.
The truth behind vendor-provided data protection
I cannot count the number of times I’ve heard: "Oh, we don’t need to worry — [insert SaaS vendor here] protects our data."
To which I say: “Cool. Have you tested that?” Because here’s the reality:
- Vendor backup tools don’t always cover everything.
- Recovery tools are often limited.
- No matter what technical capabilities the vendor has, their policies might limit what they can, or will, recover for you.
- Their data retention policies might not match your compliance needs.
- And most importantly — many SaaS vendors do not provide immutable and air-gapped backups. What happens to the primary data and the vendor-provided backup when the single vendor has a catastrophic failure?
Real-life horror stories abound. Companies assume their SaaS provider has them covered, only to find out the hard way that oops, that critical customer data isn’t recoverable. No one wants to have to explain to their boss, the company board of directors, or a government regulator, that despite their good intentions, it turns out that there is not actually a usable backup after all. Talk about awkward conversations!
Regulatory focus: Data sovereignty and resilience
One area where regulators have already stepped in is data sovereignty — where your data lives and whether it is allowed to move across borders. This can be a very complicated topic depending on where you're located and where your data is. In short:
- If you're a European customer, you generally do not want your data transmitted to the U.S. for regulatory reasons.
- Interestingly, we’re now seeing American organizations request the same thing — they may not have a legal requirement to keep their data in the continental U.S., but they want it kept there.
Where’s the beef?
Wendy’s had a famous commercial that is still well known 40 years after its debut, with actress Clara Peller demanding to know “Where’s the beef?!” Regulators do that now, too. Whereas they used to say, “It’s fine if you have a policy for resilience,” now they say, "Prove it." Show that your policy works. Show that you test it. Show that you can actually recover.
This is the kernel at the core of the NIS2 and DORA regulations, and I expect that approach to carry over into other regulations on all sides of all oceans. It’s no longer enough to talk a good game about your protection; you have to be able to demonstrate it.
Regulations — or no regulations — you need a cloud-based, modern backup solution designed to meet today’s data protection challenges.
Clean your room!
Love them or hate them, regulations are here to stay. And even if compliance isn’t driving your data protection strategy, business continuity should be. The good news is you probably already realize how important business continuity is. It’s like being a child and having your parents tell you to clean your room.
You probably didn’t want to, so your parents (as the regulator) had to encourage or even enforce it. Gradually, though, you probably caught on to the fact that it’s easier to keep a room clean by keeping it clean over time, and that a clean room is a nicer place to live: There are no rats or bugs, you can find things, and so on.
In that same vein, today’s regulators are just seeking to make us do things around business continuity and resilience that we should all be doing anyway. There’s no time like right now to get started.
So, where do you start?
- Assess your risks. What happens if you lose access to your data today?
- Upgrade your backup strategy. Modern 3-2-1 isn’t optional — it’s essential.
- Prove resilience. Test. Document. Be ready.
Because if you’re not thinking about this now, I promise you — regulators will make you do it later. You don’t have to love regulations, but you do have to prepare to live with them.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/data-sovereignty-europe/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T02:48:42+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Europeâs data sovereignty challenge
The reality of Europe’s cloud dependence
Europe stands at a crossroads when it comes to data sovereignty. Despite its aspirations for autonomy, 97% of the cloud infrastructure and platform services market is dominated by U.S. and Chinese providers — like the US Big Three (AWS, Azure, and Google Cloud) and Chinese providers such as Alibaba, Huawei, and Tencent.
The implications are profound. With critical European data housed within infrastructures controlled by foreign entities, the EU’s ambitions for digital sovereignty face significant hurdles. How can Europe claim true data sovereignty when its information resides under jurisdictions subject to foreign government access and control?
The geopolitical landscape
The global cloud market is not just about technology — it’s about politics and control. Data sovereignty speaks to the legal and regulatory control a country or region has over data generated or stored within its borders. But with most of the infrastructure controlled by non-European players, the question of true sovereignty remains unresolved.
This dependency leaves Europe vulnerable to political shifts and foreign legislation, including policies like the U.S. CLOUD Act, which grants American authorities the right to access data stored by U.S. companies, even if it resides on foreign soil.
A path forward for Europe
For Europe to assert control over its digital future, it must prioritize sovereign cloud solutions. These infrastructures would guarantee data residency, security, and autonomy, shielding critical information from foreign oversight. Keepit’s architecture is purpose-built for such sovereignty, with control over the entire data and management plane, providing a viable pathway for European enterprises to regain digital control.
Next steps: Navigating toward European digital autonomy
To transition from dependence to autonomy, European companies should:
- Invest in sovereign cloud solutions: Opt for providers that prioritize European data residency and compliance.
- Strengthen compliance with regional regulations: Align with GDPR, DORA, NIS2 and local data privacy laws to build stronger protections.
- Leverage local data centers: Prioritize data centers within Europe to avoid geopolitical risks.
- Demand transparency and local control: Ensure your provider maintains complete transparency over data handling and security measures.
- Promote regional cloud initiatives: Support European-based cloud initiatives that focus on sovereignty and compliance.
A sovereign Europe starts with responsible decisions made today.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/data-sovereignty-report/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-01-23T12:13:53+01:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

When the cloud goes dark: Why data sovereignty mattersÂ
Data sits at the center of every major decision leaders make today. It fuels operations, innovation, and long-term strategy — and it also represents one of the biggest sources of risk. As geopolitical tensions rise, regulations evolve, and hyperscalers consolidate power, questions about who controls your data and who can access it have become business questions, not just technical ones.
That's why we created our new report, “Data sovereignty: Take control of your data.” It’s designed for CEOs, CIOs, CISOs, COOs, and board members who want a clear understanding of what data sovereignty means in practice and which steps they can take to protect their organizations in an increasingly unpredictable environment.
What the data sovereignty report covers
The report breaks down a complex topic into practical guidance that helps leaders cut through noise and focus on what matters. Inside, you’ll find:
A clear explanation of digital and data sovereignty
We define the three pillars of digital sovereignty — data, operations, and technology — and explain why data sovereignty is often the hardest to achieve.
Why sovereignty has become urgent
Geopolitics, hyperscaler dominance, stricter privacy laws, and rising availability requirements are forcing organizations to rethink where their data lives and who ultimately controls it.
Key questions every organization must answer
We outline the questions leaders need to ask across governance, data, operations, and infrastructure to understand their exposure and determine where action is needed.
Regional and national insights
The report offers a global view, with perspectives on the United States, Europe, and markets across the world — plus concise national snapshots for eight countries, highlighting threats, regulations, and trusted guidance.
Eight trends shaping the road ahead
From sovereign clouds to tightening regulations, hardware dependencies, hybrid architectures, and emerging sovereignty concerns around AI memory, we outline the broad shifts that will shape how organizations build and protect digital infrastructure.
An action plan for resilience and control.
You’ll find practical recommendations to reduce vendor lock-in, strengthen governance, improve transparency, and build a roadmap toward autonomy — including how to secure backup and recovery in a sovereignty-focused world.
Why this matters now
Around the world, leaders face a difficult balancing act: enabling innovation while protecting the organization from political, operational, and compliance risks. Many companies believe that keeping data in-region is enough. Increasingly, it's not. True sovereignty requires understanding who owns the infrastructure that stores your data and whether foreign jurisdictions can compel access.
Laws like the CLOUD Act and rulings such as Schrems II have shown how quickly established frameworks can shift. At the same time, hybrid warfare and supply chain vulnerabilities continue to expose weaknesses in global digital infrastructure. This report helps leaders navigate that landscape with clarity and confidence.
How Keepit supports digital sovereignty
Sovereignty has been part of our architecture for more than 20 years. Keepit operates a vendor-independent cloud, owns our full tech stack, and maintains physical and logical separation between production environments and backup data. That independence gives our customers autonomy: They know where their data is, who manages it, and how it is protected — without relying on hyperscalers or sub-processors.
Download the data sovereignty report
If your organization is operating across borders or preparing to expand, data sovereignty is now a strategic priority. Our report will help you understand the shifting landscape, assess your risks, and take actionable steps toward control.
Download "Data sovereignty: Take control of your data" to learn how to protect your organization’s future.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/data-sovereignty/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-03-10T08:16:28+01:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Data sovereignty: Why ensuring control means complying with legal requirements
Data sovereignty asks: Can you tell your data subjects exactly where their cloud SaaS data is stored?
(Article from June 2022: An updated version reflecting 2024 requirements will be available shortly.)
The cloud, which most of us think of as somewhat intangible and sometimes referred to as “up there,” is actually very much grounded, geolocated within the borders of countries. Data sovereignty is an important consideration for organizations as everything stored in the cloud is stored in data centers. But where exactly is your data? This should be an easy question to answer, and it is central to the discourse on data sovereignty.
As cloud computing becomes the norm, so does the knowledge that a data protection strategy following best practices (such as the 3-2-1 backup rule) needs to be implemented in the cloud to ensure, among many things, data sovereignty.
Not knowing, or not being able to control, where data is stored can be dangerous and may lead to exposing a company to unwanted risk: loss of company trust, litigation, compliance headaches, stagnation in business growth, fines, and permanent, unrecoverable data loss.
What is data sovereignty (besides difficult to spell)?
Wikipedia’s data sovereignty definition is simple: “Data sovereignty is the idea that data [is] subject to the laws and governance structures within the nation it is collected.”
This may sound abstract and obvious at the same time, but it is the source of important requirements for organizations to protect and manage their (and their data subjects’) data in line with local and international laws, thereby complying with the general governance of the jurisdictions where the data has traveled across and is stored – not only where the company is located.
What are the 7 requirements of data sovereignty?
Some of the requirements of data sovereignty that may impact data management include data residency, data accessibility, data privacy, data retention, data transfer, data auditing, and backup. Let's look more into these (with potential use case):
1. Data residency:
This refers to the requirement that data must be stored within a specific geographical location and is subject to the laws and regulations of that region.
Examples:
- A multinational company with operations in the European Union (EU) is required to store all customer data within the EU to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
- A government agency in Australia is required to store all citizen data within the country's borders to comply with the Privacy Act 1988.
2. Data accessibility:
This refers to the requirement that data must be accessible to authorized personnel only and that access controls must be in place to prevent unauthorized access to sensitive data.
Examples:
- A financial institution is required to implement strict access controls to its customer data, allowing only authorized personnel to access sensitive information such as account balances and transaction history.
- A healthcare provider is required to secure its electronic health records system to ensure that only authorized clinicians and staff can access patient information.
3. Data privacy:
This refers to the requirement that data must be protected from unauthorized access or disclosure, and that personal data must be collected and processed in accordance with privacy laws.
Examples:
- A technology company is required to comply with the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) and allow consumers to control the collection, use, and sharing of their personal information.
- An e-commerce website is required to comply with the EU's GDPR and obtain explicit consent from its customers before collecting and processing their personal data.
4. Data retention:
This refers to the requirement that data must be retained for a specific period of time, and that appropriate measures must be in place to ensure the secure storage and disposal of data when it reaches its retention period.
Examples:
- A government agency is required to retain certain types of data for a specific amount of time, such as five years, to comply with relevant regulations and laws.
- An accounting firm is required to keep financial records for a minimum of seven years to comply with tax laws.
5. Data transfer:
This refers to the requirement that data must be transferred in a secure and controlled manner and that data transfers across borders must comply with data privacy laws and regulations.
Examples:
- A multinational company is required to comply with the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield framework when transferring personal data from the EU to the United States.
- A cloud service provider is required to implement strict security measures and encryption when transferring customer data over the internet to prevent unauthorized access or breaches.
6. Data auditing:
This refers to the requirement that data must be auditable and that appropriate logs must be kept to allow organizations to track access to and use of sensitive data.
Examples:
- A bank is required to maintain a log of all access to its customer data and regularly audit these logs to ensure compliance with security and privacy policies.
- A government agency is required to maintain a comprehensive audit trail of all data transactions, including the creation, modification, and deletion of data, to comply with internal policies and regulations.
7. Data backup:
This refers to the requirement that organizations must have a robust data backup and recovery strategy in place to protect against data loss or corruption.
Examples:
- A large enterprise is required to implement a disaster recovery plan that includes regular backups of critical data to ensure business continuity in the event of a system failure or data loss.
- A software development company is required to store multiple copies of its source code in secure offsite locations to protect against data loss or corruption.
Complying with legal requirements for data transmission: Understanding the importance of data sovereignty
Complying with the foreign legal requirements associated with data transmission across borders “is an important matter because the location of data storage directly affects the applicability of local privacy legislation” (Data Sovereignty: A Review). If you don’t know where your data lives, you can’t be fully aware of the laws to which you are subject.
Even if you know where your data is stored, you may still need to choose or control its physical location. It can be complicated (and potentially quite risky) to store data in regions whose rules you don’t understand or whose rules may conflict with your own country’s rules, impacting your data availability, your data compliance, and ultimately your data security. Your ability to choose data center location becomes even more important with legislation such as NIS2 and the GDPR.
SaaS data management for compliance in the GDPR landscape
By now, many of us have experienced the changes that followed the European Union’s implementation of the GDPR, where the fundamental right for data protection of data subjects is protected, resulting in an increased awareness (and increased requirements) regarding the handling of data by organizations.
The GDPR brought about new obligations for organizations to be transparent about their data collection and processing practices, to obtain clear consent for the use of personal data, and to implement appropriate technical and organizational measures to ensure the security of personal data.
Additionally, the GDPR also established the right for individuals to request access to their personal data and the right to have it erased. These changes have led to a heightened sense of responsibility among organizations for how they handle and process data and have helped to increase trust in the digital economy.. Learn more about compliance and GDPR here.
Data sovereignty made easy: Independent data centers with no-transmission guarantees
In the convoluted world of data sovereignty and data compliance, there are steps that organizations can take to, as designer Ed Heinemann termed, “simplicate [sic] and add lightness” to their data management strategy.
For instance, storing data in data centers that offer no-transmission guarantees—guarantees which ensure data will not leave the selected data region—means no surprises in terms of litigation due to the confidence of knowing exactly where data is stored. One way of achieving this is by deploying a global data center strategy focused on (and committed to) guaranteeing that no data leaves the customer’s chosen data center region.
Keepit is a cloud-based data protection and backup solution that provides businesses and organizations with a secure and reliable way to store and protect their data. By offering a no-transmission guarantee, Keepit allows you to store your data in a specific region and guarantees that your data will never be transmitted or moved outside of that region – vital for businesses that have regulations or concerns around data sovereignty, privacy, or data residency.
By providing a choice of where your data is stored, Keepit helps ensure that you remain in control of your data and that it is protected in accordance with your specific requirements and needs.
Keepit also offers a range of other features designed to help you protect your data, including automatic backup and recovery, versioning, and disaster recovery options for a suite of SaaS applications such as Microsoft 365, Azure AD, and Salesforce – to name a few. These features help to ensure that your data is always available and accessible when you need it, and that it can be recovered in the event of data loss or corruption.
Read Business Wire's article on Keepit opening two new Canadian data centers.
“Superior data center strategy”
Comply with data protection laws and secure your cloud data with Keepit's global data center strategy. No-transmission guarantees and multi-regional options. Learn more about Keepit data centers here.
Keepit, in their latest data center additions—this time in the Canadian market—has a global footprint that spans six regions: the US, the UK, Germany, Denmark, Canada, and Australia. Read Business Wire's article on Keepit opening two new Canadian data centers.
Aside from the legal and compliance benefits, there are many other gains to be had from deploying a dedicated SaaS data protection solution.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/disaster-recovery-maturity-framework/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-01-21T14:36:56+01:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Introducing a DR maturity framework for SaaS (part 1/6)
Why a maturity model for SaaS, why now, and how to tell where you are
This six-part blog series introduces Keepit’s practical, vendor-neutral maturity framework for SaaS disaster recovery (DR). Built on more than 20 years of real-world experience, it helps you orient yourself to where you are today and what to improve next. This post sets the stage; each of the next five posts will focus on one maturity stage, with a real-world example, the common attributes at that stage, and the concrete steps that move an organization forward.
Decades ago, the Carnegie Mellon Software Engineering Institute created what they called a Capability Maturity Model (CMM), a revolutionary attempt to establish the first standardized model of organizational maturity in software engineering. The SEI CMM helped organizations understand how mature their engineering processes were, along with steps on how to reach higher levels of software quality by increasing organizational maturity.
There are no SaaS-specific models that focus on disaster recovery for SaaS applications. We recognize the value of a standardized and public model, so we decided to develop one — but why would SaaS data protection need a specific maturity model?
What makes SaaS DR different
SaaS decentralizes both data and control. You can lose access without losing the data itself (identity or permission failures), and you can lose data without losing access to the surviving data (deletion, corruption, malicious encryption). Organizations don’t have the same visibility or control when performing SaaS DR operations that they do with on-premises applications, which can create risky gaps in data protection and resilience.
Many organizations believe that their SaaS vendors provide an integrated and complete DR capability to protect their data. The reality? Native features help with convenience and basic hygiene, and the vendors protect against total loss of all data they hold, but these measures aren’t a substitute for independent, immutable backup that you control. Why? Because SaaS vendors follow a model in which responsibility is shared between the user (customer) and the vendor. Let’s look into the shared responsibility model.
The SaaS shared responsibility model
Under shared responsibility models, which are common to pretty much every SaaS vendor, the provider secures the service layer (including network, OS, and their own apps), while customers are responsible for the data they create, their configurations and identities, data retention, devices, and ultimately their ability to recover from data loss scenarios.
This model is often misunderstood, leading to a data protection gap between assumed level of protection and the actual level of data protection offered natively. This gap shows up every day: In a recent Keepit survey, 37% of respondents said they rely only on native protection measures, which often means short retention windows and limited recovery options (i.e., not true backup).
The DR maturity framework for SaaS
This data protection gap is why we’ve built a vendorâneutral maturity framework specifically for SaaS disaster recovery. The goal is simple, but vital: Give every organization a common language to describe their current capability, a way to pinpoint the next best step, and a path to move from firefighting to managed resilience.
How the DR maturity model works
The framework accesses your program across three categories. We’ve used and verified this model in our work with customers and have, through a collaborative process, determined which characteristics and metrics are most predictive for an organization’s maturity level when it comes to disaster recovery for SaaS applications.
The primary metrics considered to determine an organizations’ maturity level fall into these three categories:
1.Organizational maturity
- Direct experience with outages
- Adequate/appropriate levels of staffing/knowledge
- Quality and rigor of change control processes
- Integration with enterprise governance, risk management, and information control processes or frameworks
2. Quality and scope of existing infrastructure
- Adequate inventory or knowledge of SaaS application data
- Existing data protection infrastructure
- Existing data classification infrastructure
- Degree and quality of system and service observability
- Degree and quality of automation support
3. Motivation
- Degree and kind of awareness of applicable regulatory requirements
- Past negative experiences that drive a desire for DR improvements
- Willingness to allocate budget for disaster recovery improvements
As each of the five stages of the maturity framework will have its own blog, let’s quickly look at what the stages are.
At a glance: The five stages of the DR maturity framework
In the Keepit model, organizations are typically assigned to one of the following five levels of SaaS DR maturity. Note that it’s also possible for an organization to have mixed results due to being at different levels in the above three categories.
1. Reactive
Hallmarks: Ad hoc recoveries; no repeatable processes or documentation; little to no data classification; unclear roles; “whoever yells loudest” prioritization; multiple single points of failure; limited out-of-band communications; focus on app data while ignoring the control plane.
Next steps: Create actual written recovery plans, ask the business to name the single most critical dataset, and assign named owners/backups to create the first repeatable process.
2. Basic
Hallmarks: Fragmented procedures; sporadic or no testing; limited understanding of root causes; some budgeting but narrow scope; success depends on a few people (high “bus factor”); limited and uneven labeling/classification.
Next steps: Strengthen documentation with test cases and expected results, establish a minimum viable test cadence, set up offline communications, and close obvious skills/coverage gaps.
3. Structured
Hallmarks: Documented and understood procedures for common recoveries; regular reviews; adequate staffing with limited redundancy (medium bus factor); better planning/budgeting; good but uneven classification.
Next steps: Use monitoring and test retrospectives to find gaps, extend scope to additional datasets/control-plane items, and reduce remaining single points of failure.
4. Proactive
Hallmarks: Regular, higher-standard DR/BC tests (including large-scale and identity/control-plane restores); established redundancy; consistent labeling; effective at individual recoveries but limited concurrency across the portfolio.
Next steps: Scale by deepening observability and integrating DR with governance and adjacent functions so you can run multiple recoveries concurrently and prevent new single points of failure.
5. Managed
Hallmarks: DR is a core, leadership-owned function; fully developed plans for complex, multi-workload recoveries; strong observability (including anomaly detection); broad, reliable coverage with people/system redundancy; board-level reporting and continuous improvement.
Next steps: Sustain and optimize — expand predictive capabilities, rehearse portfolio-wide scenarios, and maintain governance/reporting to avoid regression.
Where to go from here
The next installment of the blog series will cover stage one: Reactive. where we’ll look at what firefighting really looks like and how organizations can make their first moves toward predictability. In the meantime, you can jump right into the DR maturity framework.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/dora-compliance-backup/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T02:52:23+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

DORA: Strengthening financial institutions through effective backup solutions
The Digital Operational Resilience Act (DORA) marks a new phase in how financial institutions must approach cybersecurity and operational resilience. With its January 2025 implementation date fast approaching, institutions are focusing on aligning their ICT (information and communication technology) risk management frameworks with DORA’s stringent requirements.
One critical aspect of compliance under DORA is ensuring that institutions have robust backup policies and procedures in place. This article discusses how backup solutions, particularly cloud-based ones, can help financial institutions meet DORA compliance requirements, ensuring minimal downtime and protecting the integrity of their operations.
Unpacking DORA’s backup requirements
DORA mandates that financial institutions incorporate comprehensive backup, restoration, and recovery measures into their ICT risk management strategies. These backup systems are not simply a technical requirement — they play a central role in ensuring business continuity. DORA stipulates that backup solutions must be:
- Secure: Protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of data.
- Activated without compromising IT systems: Backup procedures should not expose systems to further vulnerabilities during restoration processes.
In practical terms, financial institutions must set up backup systems that can withstand cyber incidents, system failures, and disruptions. Crucially, DORA emphasizes that backup is not just an IT issue — it is a governance issue, requiring oversight and approval from executive management. Backup solutions must, therefore, be part of the organization’s strategic ICT risk framework.
The role of backup solutions in DORA compliance
Effective backup policies and procedures lie at the heart of operational resilience and DORA compliance. In line with internationally recognized standards like ISO 22301 (business continuity) and ISO 27031 (ICT disaster recovery), backup solutions are indispensable for preparing for and recovering from disruptive incidents.
DORA’s focus extends beyond simple data restoration. It includes ensuring logical and physical data segregation (air gapping), data encryption standard, access control, data integrity, and redundancy. Financial institutions need to select backup solutions that ensure the following:
- Redundancy and high availability: Ensures continuity by replicating data across multiple locations.
- Strong encryption and access control: Secures data both at rest and in transit.
- Quick recovery times: Minimizes downtime during an incident response by swiftly restoring access to critical systems and data.
Choosing a third-party backup provider with a proven track record in financial services can help ensure compliance, while also mitigating risks in the event of an incident.
Regular testing: A pillar of effective backup practices
Under DORA, regular testing of backup and restoration procedures is mandatory. This ensures that institutions can quickly recover in the face of incidents, while also identifying gaps in their current strategies. These tests must be conducted periodically, with large organizations often needing to implement threat-led penetration testing (TLPT).
However, not all backup solutions offer equal efficiency when it comes to testing and auditing. When choosing a vendor, it is important to look for those that support:
- Efficient auditing and reporting: Documenting the effectiveness of backup processes without using excessive business resources.
- Frequent and flexible testing capabilities: Allowing businesses to test their backup infrastructure as often as necessary to ensure compliance with DORA’s stringent requirements.
As backup testing will be a recurring event under DORA, the ability to perform these tests without disrupting normal business operations will be critical for maintaining both operational resilience and regulatory compliance.
Conclusion
Backup solutions are central to meeting DORA’s ICT risk management and operational resilience requirements. Financial institutions that invest in robust backup systems can protect their operations from disruptions, ensure continuity, and, most importantly, comply with the regulatory demands set out by DORA.
In summary, when selecting backup solutions, financial institutions should focus on key features that will ensure they can meet DORA’s stringent requirements:
- Access control and encryption: Protect data integrity and confidentiality with data encryption standard.
- Redundancy and high availability: Ensure that data is consistently available when needed.
- Efficient testing and reporting: Minimize resource use while meeting regulatory testing mandates.
- Comprehensive recovery plans: Ensure a quick and organized restoration of services after an incident.
- Detailed documentation: Maintain thorough records of backup processes, testing, and recovery, crucial for both internal governance and external regulatory audits.
By implementing these strategies, financial institutions will not only achieve compliance with DORA but also enhance their resilience against cyberthreats, securing their operations and maintaining the trust of their customers.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/end-to-end-iso-iec-27001-certified/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:20:08+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Keepit is now end-to-end ISO/IEC27001 certified
With the most comprehensive IS0/IEC 27001:2013 certification possible, Keepit has taken pole position in the cloud backup and recovery space.
Let me just say: I am very proud to be part of this team! For years, our security, engineering, and operations teams have been preparing for the assessment. And for the past six months, British Standards Institution has been auditing all parts of Keepit rigorously.
In March, the audit was completed and Keepit achieved â¯ISO/IEC 27001:2013 certificationâ¯for information security management systems (ISMS). The certification is documentation that the entire organization has been audited and is certified: The services, the technology, business continuity, operations, disaster recovery, sales, and legal. And in all of our locations.
That we have succeeded is due to very hard work by key people – our Head of Information Security Yuliana Tvardovska in particular, who has led the team through the audit.
The certificate states that:
“[Keepit] operates an Information Security Management system which complies with the requirements of the ISO/IEC 27001:2013 for the following scope:
The ISMS scope includes development, operations, and maintenance of services that support the company’s business & B2B SaaS Backup Solutions System, in accordance with the ISMS Statement of Applicability V.20220120."
The scope of what we have done is very ambitious: It is not standard to include the entire organization. Up until now – like many other vendors in our industry – only our data centers have been ISO27001 certified. With the breadth of this certificate, our customers can rest assured that all processes within our organization live up to the highest international security standards.
Security is baked into our DNA
In the assessment report, the auditors commend Keepit for demonstrating a seriousness in our approach to security - an observation that pleases me more than just about anything else: Baking security in to everything we do has been our credo from the very beginning.
But frankly, we are often met with questions on whether something as simple to use as the Keepit solution is really and truly secure. So having our efforts recognized and validated is a milestone to us and a reassurance for our customers.
This recognition reinforces our decision to keep our solution and service simple – a decision that is our answer to one of the big dilemmas of the IT security industry: How to strike the balance between effective security on the one hand and, on the other hand, ensuring the adoption of the measures required to uphold the necessary level of security to protect the business.
We subscribe to the belief that simplicity and ease-of-use are a key factor in security: Technology only works when you use it, and you only use it when it is simple and intuitive.
Now, that belief and our execution of it has the seal of approval of the most respected international information security standards.
If you have any questions about the certification or anything else, you are more than welcome to get in touch with me or the team.
Here's what was assessed in the audit:
The ISO/IEC 27001:2013 framework includes 150 controls, and the audit requires us to document what we do - and if we don't, then why.
The assessment report and certificate cover all of Keepit's locations.
The assessment report findings include, but is not limited to:
- Management, Leadership, and commitment, ISMS Policy
- ISMS Planning - Context, Scope, Interested Parties
- Resources, Communication, Documented Information
- Performance Evaluation and Improvement, Internal Audit, Management Review, Non-Conformity and Corrective Actions
- HR & Personnel Security
- Asset Management
- Risk Management: Risk assessment & Risk Treatment Statement of Applicability (SoA)
- Physical & Environmental Security
- Access control, Technical, Networks, Apps & OS (A9), Cryptographic Controls
- IT Operations Security
- System Development
- Supplier Security Management
- Security Incident Management
- Business Continuity Management
- Compliance with Legal & Regulatory Requirements

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/entra-id-cross-tenant-restore/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-03-16T11:49:05+01:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Cross-tenant restore for Entra ID: Test, verify, and rebuild identity with KeepitÂ
When identity fails, everything that depends on it fails, too.
Entra ID is a core identity and access management (IAM) service for Microsoft 365 and your connected apps. It’s the control plane that determines who can sign in and what they can access. If users can’t authenticate (or if security teams can’t trust the tenant), collaboration and access can grind to a halt.
For many organizations, business continuity isn’t just about recovering data, it’s about restoring the identity layer that makes access possible in the first place.
If you’re not already backing up Entra ID, start there. Entra ID contains cloud-only objects and configurations that on-prem approaches don’t fully cover, and native recoverability isn’t designed to be a comprehensive backup strategy. For a deeper explainer on why Entra ID backup matters, see our earlier blog post.
Now comes the next question: How do you prove you can restore (and safely) without experimenting in production? We’re introducing cross-tenant restore, a new feature in Keepit’s Entra ID offering, to help customers test, verify, and rebuild identity in a separate tenant.
What is cross-tenant restore for Entra ID?
Cross-tenant restore is a new feature in Keepit’s Entra ID offering that lets you restore Entra ID objects from one Microsoft tenant into another tenant.
Instead of restoring only back into the production tenant, you can rebuild directory objects and configuration in a clean, separate test tenant — ideal for sandbox testing, change verification and recovery planning.
With Keepit, cross-tenant restore supports restoring key Entra ID objects, including:
- Users
- Groups
- Administrative units
- Roles
- Policies
- App registrations
- Service principals
Why cross-tenant restore matters
Backing up identity is essential. But for many organizations, the real risk shows up later when it’s time to validate a restore or test a change and production is the only place to do it.
Cross-tenant restore addresses that problem directly by giving you a safe place to restore identity data and confirm it’s recoverable.
1) Verify your backup and restore process, support compliance testing requirements
Backups are only as valuable as your ability to restore them. Cross-tenant restore makes it possible to validate recovery outside your production tenant.
That can be useful even before a crisis. A restore into a test tenant gives teams tangible evidence that identity objects and configurations can be recovered. It also helps build confidence in both the process and the platform.
This kind of verification is foundational to business continuity planning. It can also support resilience expectations in regulations such as DORA, which emphasize documented and tested continuity and recovery capabilities.
2) Test Entra ID changes without risking production
Entra ID changes often have outsized impact. Conditional Access policies, role assignments, and app registrations can affect sign-in behavior and access across the organization.
With cross-tenant restore, teams can spin up a test tenant that mirrors production identity configuration closely enough to:
- Validate planned changes,
- Experiment with policy adjustments,
- Troubleshoot “what if” scenarios,
- And confirm expected outcomes before rollout.
This makes change management safer, and it reduces the chance that a well-intended update becomes an outage. Since Entra ID licenses are free of charge, it’s feasible to keep a secondary Entra ID tenant available for ongoing verification and change testing. Cross-tenant restore makes it practical to populate that tenant with the identity objects you need, without putting production at risk.
3) Business continuity when the primary tenant is down or untrusted
Cross tenant support is important in a number of disaster scenarios. If the primary tenant is compromised or untrusted, cross-tenant restore lets you rebuild critical Entra ID objects in a clean tenant so you can plan and execute recovery without relying on the affected environment.
That matters for business continuity because Entra ID is what enables access. When the primary tenant is down, misconfigured, or undergoing cleanup after an incident, users may be unable to sign in and apps that depend on Entra ID may stop authenticating. Cross-tenant restore gives you a way to recreate the identity layer in a separate tenant so key employees can re-establish access to essential applications and continue critical work while the primary tenant is being remediated.
This is best understood as partial disaster recovery as you’re restoring identity objects and configuration, not instantly recreating your entire Microsoft 365 environment. Full Microsoft 365 or Power Platform functionality in a secondary tenant still depends on licensing and provisioning, so it’s vital to check licenses in the target Entra ID tenant to ensure everything is restored correctly.
How it works in Keepit
The workflow is designed to be straightforward:
- Choose same-tenant restore or cross-tenant restore
- Select the target domain in the destination tenant
- Choose the snapshot from which the data should be restored
- Select which data areas to restore (users, groups, admin units, roles, policies, app registrations, service principals, and more)
- Review a detailed summary before execution, including counts and scope
In practice, that means you can restore exactly the Entra ID objects you need, either back into the same tenant or into a separate tenant, with a clear preview of scope before anything changes.
Version 1 — and built to evolve
Cross-tenant restore is available as an initial release (V1). We’re listening closely to customer feedback to shape what comes next, and we’re expanding on that coverage driven by evolving customer needs.
Read more about Keepit for Entra ID.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/esg-ransomware-report/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:20:06+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

How the next ransomware attack will hurt you: The numbers are in
75% of organizations have been victims of at least one successful ransomware attack in the past year, disrupting them operationally and financially.
These attacks have become a constant battle between ever more sophisticated attackers and the IT and cybersecurity professionals tasked with keeping them at bay.
In fact, a new survey (co-sponsored by Keepit) tells us that 65% of those IT and cybersecurity professionals name ransomware among the top 3 threats to their organization's viability, and 13% of those even name it the biggest threat.
If you are responsible for protecting your organization’s data, are you prepared for the next ransomware attack? If you are concerned about gaps in your strategy, you’re not alone. Many feel their organizations do not have the proper preparation in place to handle the increase in frequency and impact of attacks. So read on, learn where attacks are being targeted, and how to increase your level of preparedness.
The statistics are fresh and based on a new Enterprise Strategy Group survey of 600 European and North American IT and cybersecurity professionals personally involved with protecting against and recovering from ransomware attacks.
Get all the latest numbers on ransomware attacks in the full report.
What ransomware attackers go after
We have reliable data both on which parts of your IT environment are at risk, and which data classes the attackers are most likely to go after. So, let’s take them each in turn.
The parts of your IT environment most at risk
Attackers can enter your network at many different points, placing a significant burden on IT departments. But with this data, you will have a better idea of where to strengthen your defenses.
The element most affected by ransomware attacks — indicated by 38% of survey respondents whose organization experienced a successful ransomware attack - is their key IT infrastructure. Anyone who controls even a small part of your IT infrastructure has tremendous power over you. They no longer even need to kidnap your files. For example, if they can disrupt, or gain control over, your Active Directory, they can shut your operations down for all practical purposes.
For obvious reasons, your storage systems are also an attractive destination for attackers. Whether on-prem or in the cloud, there is a lot of gold in your data assets.
But the survey respondents tell us that there are also plenty of other targets under assault in their IT environments. These include networks and connectivity, cloud-based data, IoT operations infrastructure, and last but not least data protection infrastructure.
Especially the last one deserves a special mention. Ransomware attacks are increasingly targeting backup copies of data — something that 74% of survey respondents were concerned about.
This is why at Keepit we have gone to great lengths to create backup solutions that eliminate this very risk to the data protection infrastructure by insulating your backup in our independent cloud. With our true third-party protection, your data is stored in separate, isolated, immutable storage that is physically and logically separated from the rest of your IT environment. So the risk of attackers being able to reach your backups is greatly reduced.
While the industry is slowly realizing the importance of such “air-gapped” and immutable solutions, this is not common practice within the backup solutions industry just yet.
The data classes most at risk
The data class most targeted by the attackers — cited by 58% of the respondents whose organization had experienced a successful ransomware attack — is the one that you are required by law to protect: regulated data. This hurts in any way you can imagine, both for you and those that entrust you with their data.
 
But a close second is sensitive infrastructure configuration data. Affecting the infrastructure at its core is a very effective way for attackers because it makes it easier for them to steal or damage data and to evade detection.  
In essence, this is how many attackers first gain entry. Once inside, they “climb the ladder” to compromise an account with admin privileges. And then, they can start breaking things such as configuration settings and access rules, and start stealing.
We recently saw a brazen example of just such an attack. In this case, attackers caused major disruptions and financial losses by compromising both on-prem and cloud-based systems. The attacker:
- Entered the target network by compromising an on-premises account
- Leveraged that account to compromise the on-prem Active Directory
- Used that access to pivot to and compromise Azure AD
 
All of the target's Azure storage and compute resources were deleted. If you don’t have a backup of your Azure AD data, building your settings and access control up from the ground again will be difficult and time-consuming, leaving you vulnerable to further attacks in the interim. 
Other data classes the survey respondents indicated are usually targeted are intellectual property data and mission-critical data. Any attack on mission-critical data is frustrating and costly as companies struggle to restore data and operations. But temporary or permanent loss of sensitive intellectual property information is not only hurtful in the short-term until operations are resumed, but can be enormously damaging in the long-term.
All these four types of data are highly desired by the attackers. You can see exactly how much, and a lot more, in the report itself.
As you can see, your IT infrastructure has a major bullseye on its back that bad actors constantly try to hit. Unfortunately, sometimes they will succeed. So, you had better have the right plan in place to deal with the consequences when it happens.
How the ransomware attacks hurt
When asked in the survey how all those successful ransomware attacks have impacted the respondents’ businesses, the two standout examples were data loss and data exposure.
But the list of painful effects is long. Some worth mentioning are operational disruptions, direct impact on employees, customers and partners (such as access to personally identifiable information), and financial, compliance and reputational damage.
If you want to know in more detail what pains to expect and prepare for, I recommend that you look through the the official report.
Storytime: Scary ransomware stories from the real world
Now that you know what the attackers are after, where they hit you and what the main effects will be, let’s get a bit more tangible and look at some recent examples of successful attacks.
Ransomware attackers sure are creative, so you need to be able to anticipate their moves. And for that, it is useful to follow the related news and learn what has worked (for the attackers) in the past.
Here is some recommended reading to bring yourself up to date:
- An attack on one of Toyota's key suppliers disrupted their production. During the shutdown, Toyota lost a third of its global output and suffered a significant financial loss. Read the story. 
 
- Third-party, unauthorized access was made at Bridgestone Americas, prompting a shutdown of the computer network and production at its factories in North and Middle for about one week. Read the story.
 
- A ransomware attack hit agricultural equipment manufacturer AGCO, causing it to shut down manufacturing facilities. It took 17 days to return to full operation. Read the story.
What to make of all this
Attacks will happen, and some of them will succeed — you can’t stop them all. But with the right preparation, you can take a lot of the power out of the attackers’ hands by being able to immediately restore the data you’ve lost and clean up after the attack. So it’s all about resilience and management.
Arm yourself with the right insight. The above information is a great start — you now know which data classes and elements of your IT environment to prioritize — but it only scratches the surface. Download the full report to get the full picture.
Prevention will only take you so far, so move beyond a simple defensive strategy. How much downtime and data loss can your business really afford? Ensure you can handle the disruption and keep your business operational through the storm. To help mitigate the operational disruptions and avoid the data loss that is so common-place today, you need to invest in a solid plan to protect your business-critical data.
Now is the time to secure your data and improve your resilience levels — before the next ransomware attack hits you.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/esg-vendor-selection-top-10/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:12:57+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Top 10 considerations for a recovery solution RFP
As we all know, the threat of ransomware continues to grow, and so does the importance of ensuring that your business remains resilient and prepared to respond to and recover from ransomware attacks. To help you with your ransomware readiness, ESG (Enterprise Strategy Group) has created “The Ransomware Preparedness Top Ten Recovery Solution RFP” in their report focused on ransomware readiness and cyber resilience.
Here’s what they find are the 10 most important considerations when selecting solutions for data recovery, which will help you shortlist potential data backup and recovery platforms.
Vendor selection checklist key considerations:
1. Data encryption (at rest and/or in flight)
2. Ability to protect SaaS data
3. Ability to detect ransomware in data copies/backups
4. Integrated cloud services capabilities
5. Ability to recover to any point or location
6. Ability to protect endpoint devices
7. Ability to protect virtual machines
8. End-to-end recovery services
9. Protected/immutable data copies/backups
10. Continuous data protection/replication/journaling
Understanding these factors will help guide you toward writing a more effective proposal and to evaluate and select the most effective backup and recovery services for your organization's needs. Let’s look a bit more deeply into each of them.
Top 10 considerations for ransomware recovery solutions
Creating an RFP (request for proposal) for ransomware recovery solutions is a critical task, so let's expand a bit on why each pointer ESG has identified is important and also add some key considerations that can be included to help you build the best protection portfolio for your specific needs.
Of course, before you can do so, you need to evaluate which data has value to your business and is most critical to back up since no single solution does everything. For instance, those solutions focusing on on-prem VM aren’t going to be able to cover all SaaS. Likewise, if a solution is optimized for cloud data, it’s not going to be strong for on-prem configurations. So, considering your specific data protection needs beforehand will help you have the right tool for the right job:
1. Data encryption (at rest and/or in flight)
Importance: Data encryption is crucial for protecting sensitive information from unauthorized access and ensuring data integrity. Encryption at rest protects data stored on disks and storage devices, while encryption in flight secures data during transmission.
Considerations:
• Encryption standards: Specify the encryption algorithms (e.g., AES-256) and protocols (e.g., TLS, SSL) that the solution must support.
• Key management: Detail the requirements for key management practices, including generation, storage, rotation, and destruction.
• Compliance: Ensure the solution meets industry standards and regulatory requirements (e.g., GDPR, HIPAA).
• Performance impact: Evaluate the impact of encryption on system performance and backup/recovery speeds.
2. Ability to protect SaaS data
Importance: With the increasing adoption of SaaS applications, more and more business-essential data is stored in SaaS applications, therefore ensuring the protection and backup of data hosted in the cloud is vital for business continuity, compliance, and more.
Considerations:
• SaaS integrations: Identify specific SaaS applications (e.g., Office 365, Salesforce) and ensure the solution supports seamless integration.
• API support: Ensure the solution can interact with SaaS APIs for automated backup and recovery.
• Data ownership: Clarify data ownership and access rights in the context of SaaS providers' terms of service.
• Recovery options: Provide details on how data can be restored, including granularity (e.g., individual items vs. entire datasets).
3. Ability to detect ransomware in data copies/backups
Importance: Early detection of ransomware within backup data can prevent the spread and mitigate damage.
Considerations:
• Anomaly detection: Ensure the solution includes advanced anomaly detection techniques to identify unusual patterns indicative of ransomware.
• Scanning tools: Integrate with malware scanning tools to analyze backup data.
• Monitoring/notification systems: Set up real-time alerts for detected anomalies or potential ransomware activity.
• Historical analysis: Implement capabilities to review historical backup data for signs of previously undetected ransomware.
4. Integrated cloud services capabilities
Importance: Leveraging cloud services for backup and recovery enhances scalability, reliability, and accessibility.
Considerations:
• Cloud providers: Specify preferred cloud providers (e.g., AWS, Azure, Google Cloud) and their service offerings, while also considering data protection best practices, such as air gapping in line with the 3-2-1 backup rule.
• Cost management: Tools for monitoring and managing cloud storage costs. Many providers have additional costs based on, e.g., consumption, egress/ingress, retention, archiving departed users, and more.
• Disaster recovery: Utilize cloud for disaster recovery solutions with geographically dispersed data centers.
5. Ability to recover to any point or location
Importance: Flexibility in recovery options ensures that data can be restored to different points in time or alternate locations as needed.
Considerations:
• Granularity: Support for granular recovery points (e.g., hourly, daily) to minimize data loss.
• Flexibility: The ability to prioritize and recover the most critical data first is vital for ensuring business continuity.
• Cross-platform recovery: Ensure compatibility across different platforms and environments. Multi-workload coverage from a single provider provides additional value.
• Testing: Regularly test recovery processes to ensure reliability.
• Failover mechanisms: Include automatic failover options for critical systems.
6. Ability to protect endpoint devices
Importance: Endpoint devices are often the entry points for ransomware attacks. Protecting them is essential for overall security.
Considerations:
• Endpoint agents: Deploy lightweight agents on endpoints to monitor and protect against ransomware.
• Centralized management: Centralized dashboard for managing and monitoring endpoints.
• Data encryption: Ensure data on endpoints is encrypted.
• Backup frequency: Define how often endpoint data should be backed up.
7. Ability to protect virtual machines
Importance: Virtual machines (VMs) are integral to modern IT environments. Their protection is critical for maintaining business continuity.
Considerations:
• Hypervisor compatibility: Ensure support for major hypervisors (e.g., VMware, Hyper-V).
• Snapshot management: Use VM snapshots for efficient backup and recovery.
• Performance: Minimize performance impact during backup operations.
• Disaster recovery: Integrate with DR solutions for automated VM recovery.
8. End-to-end recovery services
Importance: Comprehensive recovery services ensure that all aspects of data and system restoration are covered.
Considerations:
• Service levels: Define SLAs for recovery time and recovery point objectives.
• Support: 24/7 support and clear escalation paths.
• Testing and validation: Regularly test recovery processes and validate data integrity.
• Documentation: Detailed documentation of recovery procedures and guidelines.
9. Protected/immutable data copies/backups
Importance: Immutable backups cannot be altered, deleted, or encrypted by ransomware, ensuring data safety.
Considerations:
• Immutability features: Implement write-once-read-many (WORM) technology.
• Retention policies: Define retention periods for immutable backups.
• Access controls: Restrict access to backup data to prevent tampering.
• Storage solutions: Use storage solutions that support immutability.
10. Continuous data protection/replication/journaling
Importance: Continuous data protection (CDP) and replication ensure minimal data loss and quick recovery.
Considerations:
• Replication methods: Choose between synchronous and asynchronous replication based on requirements.
• Data journaling: Implement journaling to track and store changes for quick rollback.
• Network bandwidth: Optimize replication processes to minimize network bandwidth usage.
• Recovery flexibility: Provide options for rolling back to specific points in time.
Conclusion
By addressing these key areas in your RFP, you'll be better equipped to evaluate vendors and select a ransomware recovery solution that meets your organization's specific needs. This comprehensive approach will help ensure the robustness and reliability of your data protection strategies. Ultimately, understanding your overall security structure will help you understand which tools you’ll need to use.
This blog article is part of a series of articles on ransomware resilience and the key role data protection plays in ensuring business continuity. Below are the three other related articles in the series for further reading.
To continue learning more about ransomware backup protection, watch our on-demand webinar.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/evaluating-cloud-data-protection-tools-external/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T02:24:08+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Evaluating cloud data protection tools
Infrastructure and operationsDec. 20, 2022 | 4 minutesBy Niels van Ingen
4 Keys to consider when evaluating cloud data protection tools
External article by Keepit expert
Keepit’s Chief Customer Officer (and frequent contributing author to the Keepit blog) Niels van Ingen has been featured in Solutions Review as part of their “Premium Content Series” written by industry experts.
As a true veteran in the data protection and management space — not only from a product point of view but also from a customer and business development one — Niels covers what he finds are the most important elements to consider when evaluating cloud data protection offerings.
Those who work in IT disaster recovery understand that data is perhaps a business’ most valuable asset that needs protection all day, every day. Implementing a SaaS backup and recovery plan is essential for nearly every aspect of business operations, and those who have not made it a top priority are literally flirting with disaster.
Read the full article entitled "4 Keys to Consider When Evaluating Cloud Data Protection Tools" on Solutions Review.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/fast-and-simple-ediscovery-with-backup-and-recovery/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:20:08+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Fast and simple eDiscovery with backup and recovery
What is eDiscovery? (With a customer Microsoft Office 365 use case)
Fast and simple eDiscovery with backup and recovery
Electronic discovery (sometimes known as eDiscovery, e-discovery) is one of those terms that means slightly different things in different contexts.
For example, in legal spheres, eDiscovery involves identifying, preserving, collecting, processing, reviewing, and analyzing electronically stored information (ESI). The term also shows up in digital forensics, which focuses on identifying, preserving, collecting, analyzing, and reporting on digital information—clearly very similar, but not quite equivalent.
In general, eDiscovery is the electronic aspect of identifying, collecting, and producing electronically stored information, such as emails, documents, databases, audio, and video files, and also includes metadata such as time-date stamps, file properties, and author and recipient information. In other words—regardless of the specific driving need—eDiscovery refers to finding and retrieving electronically stored ‘stuff’.
Sounds easy enough, right? But as anyone who’s performed eDiscovery knows, today’s information-enabled organizations produce an awful lot of that stuff. In fact, the tendency for every single action we take to produce a digital trail led public-interest technologist Bruce Schneier to observe that “data is the exhaust of the information age” [Data and Goliath: The Hidden Battles to Collect Your Data and Control Your World, pg. 4]. (Think about the amount of data an O365 eDiscovery might entail.)
Consequently, the sheer volume of electronically stored information makes eDiscovery a logistical challenge. Now, add in the time-specific nature of many requests—as in, needing to retrieve a file or record as it existed at a certain time on a certain date, a certain number of years ago—and the challenge becomes even greater.
Backup: Enabling a quick, simple, and reliable eDiscovery solution
While the retention utilities included with software-as-a-service (SaaS) applications and cloud services may be adequate for retrieving something that’s a few weeks old, they certainly aren’t intended to provide—nor are they capable of providing—a substitute for long-term backup and the use cases it enables, including disaster recovery and eDiscovery (e.g., eDiscovery for Office 365).
To be resilient in the face of outages, compromises, and misconfigurations (or simply to find a crucial piece of information), your organization needs to be able to search and access SaaS and cloud data quickly and easily. Imagine the difference between a recovery mission aided by coordinates and a map versus a vague notion that someone is somewhere.
Fortunately, with the right backup solution in place, eDiscovery really can be a breeze, especially for Microsoft Office 365 eDiscovery needs. Let’s look at a real-world example.
ALPLA: Use case experience with Keepit
With around 22,000 employees across 45 countries, ALPLA is one of the world’s leading manufacturers of high-quality plastic packaging.
The company’s rapid global expansion and cloud migration required an agile Microsoft 365 backup and recovery solution that could meet ALPLA’s need for 10-year data retention, and Keepit is proud to fulfill this need.
With other solutions, finding the right data to restore can be a tedious task, especially when very little information is provided by users—but Keepit’s unique and intelligent eDiscovery tools and search features make it easy. In the words of Stefan Toefferl, Senior Data Center Engineer at ALPLA: “Keepit provides search filters that make eDiscovery simple, allowing us to quickly find and restore an exact file.”
One of the features most valued by ALPLA is the option to share a secure link to download a file, quickly getting the data back to the users. It’s features like this Public Links (40-second demo video) that makes Keepit more than just an ordinary backup and that helps our customers to become more efficient in their daily IT operations.
Risk management in the digital age with eDiscovery tools
The nature of backup and restoration is that you often don’t know when something might be needed: unexpected audits, legal discovery, cybersecurity incidents, or even an employee needing to recover something that they deleted years ago—these can all happen at any time.
That’s why truly managing risk requires a third-party backup solution that:
- Protects users and groups by providing snapshot-based restoration and timeline-based comparative analysis
- Preserves roles and permissions, with change tracking and straightforward comparisons
- Enables compliance and eDiscovery, for instance by capturing audit and sign-in logs, supporting log analysis, ensuring long-term retention, and enabling restoration to another site
- Accommodates growth into policies and devices by preserving device information and conditional access policies
To help enterprises avoid disruption due to lost or inaccessible SaaS data, Keepit has architected a dedicated, vendor-neutral SaaS data backup solution that is resilient, secure, and easy to use. And it's not only for Microsoft eDiscovery: Head to our services page to learn more about what we offer.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/finra-sec/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T02:48:37+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

What FINRA and SEC compliance requires â and how backup solutions can help
Financial institutions operate in a tightly regulated environment and must comply with strict standards for data retention, accessibility, and integrity. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) impose specific obligations on how records are created, stored, and preserved.
As regulatory expectations evolve and enforcement tightens, organizations must evaluate whether their data backup and archiving tools can support these requirements. From immutability and retention control to audit readiness and geographic flexibility, the right capabilities can help reduce compliance risk and support business continuity.
Below, we briefly outline the key requirements of SEC Rule 17a-4 and FINRA (Rule 4511 and Rule 4370) followed by the features organizations should consider when selecting a SaaS backup and archiving solution to best support them along their compliance journey.
Meeting SEC Rule 17a-4 with secure, accessible data storage
SEC Rule 17a-4 governs how broker-dealers must retain and produce electronic records. The rule includes specific requirements such as:
- Retaining records for defined periods (often up to six years)
- Storing records in a non-rewritable, non-erasable format
- Ensuring records are indexed and readily accessible for search
- Being able to produce complete, legible, and true copies promptly upon request
- Maintaining records within or accessible from designated locations, including the United States
To align with these obligations, organizations should seek backup and archiving platforms that offer:
- Customizable retention policies that support multi-year retention requirements
- Permanently immutable storage to prevent alteration or deletion of records once captured
- Indexing and advanced search capabilities to facilitate timely record retrieval
- Geographic data storage options, including U.S.-based storage to meet location-specific rules
- Ongoing data verification to ensure integrity and audit readiness over time
These capabilities form the foundation of a data retention strategy that supports both compliance and operational efficiency.
Meeting FINRA recordkeeping expectations through backup and continuity planning
FINRA Rule 4511, along with related guidance such as FINRA Rule 4370, outlines firms’ obligations to preserve books and records, ensure accessibility, and maintain formal continuity procedures.
Key focus areas include:
- Retaining books and records as required under SEC and FINRA rules
- Preserving records in a format that maintains accuracy and integrity
- Ensuring records are readily accessible for audit or review
- Maintaining a written business continuity plan, including data backup and recovery
- Conducting due diligence when using third-party recordkeeping services
To best support compliance with FINRA’s recordkeeping framework, consider whether your backup and recovery solution provides:
- Immutable, audit-ready backups that safeguard record integrity
- Automated and secure capture of data from core SaaS platforms and business systems
- Reliable search and recovery functionality to meet regulatory timelines
- Business continuity and disaster recovery capabilities to maintain access to records even during outages
- Support for third-party recordkeeping compliance, including documentation and audit trails for vendor oversight
These features help satisfy both the technical and procedural elements of FINRA’s requirements while also improving resilience across your data infrastructure.
A deeper dive into regulatory alignment
Both SEC Rule 17a-4 and FINRA Rule 4511 place a clear focus on secure, long-term, and verifiable retention of electronic records. While achieving compliance ultimately depends on an organization’s policies and governance, technology plays a critical supporting role.
Even if you aren’t subject to these specific regulations, you probably have similar needs in your business. Understanding how modern SaaS backup and archiving capabilities help you meet both business and regulatory requirements is essential.
For a more detailed breakdown of how Keepit aligns with SEC and FINRA requirements, read our factsheet.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/four-ms-of-data-loss/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-09-18T09:28:15+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

The four Ms of data loss â and how to recover with confidence
If you’re responsible for your organization’s data — whether in IT, security, compliance, or ops — there’s a good chance you’ve already dealt with some form of data loss. If not, odds are you will. The key is understanding how those losses happen and how to recover.
In my experience, most incidents fall into one of four categories — I call them the four Ms: Malicious attacks, mistakes by admins, mishaps at your cloud provider, and migrations gone bad.
Let’s take a look at each. Along the way, I’ll share real examples, the patterns I’ve seen over and over again, and what you can do to make sure you’re ready when (not if) something goes wrong.
Malicious attacks: You will be targeted
Let’s start with the one everyone knows: cyberattacks. You’ve seen the headlines — ransomware, data-wipes, stolen credentials, you name it. But what doesn’t always make the news is how modern attacks are increasingly hybrid and decreasingly targeted.
We’re no longer dealing with isolated ransomware gangs. Today’s attacks are more coordinated, more hybrid, and less targeted than ever. Nation-state actors like MERCURY (now Mango Sandstorm) and DEV-1084 (now Storm-1084) have proven they can compromise on-prem environments, escalate privileges, and then pivot into cloud systems like Azure — where they delete Azure-based backups and try to erase the recovery path itself. That’s right: They don’t just go after your data, they go after your recovery plan.
These aren’t theoretical. Microsoft’s Threat Intelligence blog and others have published chilling case studies on how hybrid attackers operate — and how hard they are to stop once inside.
Attacks also don’t need to be that sophisticated to be devastating. Many start with a user doing something they shouldn’t — clicking a phishing link or exposing credentials. It’s not intentional, but it’s all an attacker needs to get in, elevate access, and start deleting data.
Other times, it’s far more advanced. A state-sponsored actor might compromise your local AD, escalate access, and pivot into Azure using a synced identity. From there, they target and delete your backups. Not only is your operational data gone — your safety net is too.
You might read this and think “well, no nation-state would target us,” but the sad fact is that attack technology always trickles downward. What takes a sophisticated team of experts today can be done by a ransomware gang next week and by a run-of-the-mill ankle-biter next month. As the ransomware market expands, and criminals compete with each other more, they’re being much less discriminating about who they attack, which increases the odds that you’ll get hit. An untargeted attack can do just as much damage to your business as one specifically aimed at you.
Recovery tip: You can’t assume your backup is safe just because your data is in the cloud. Backups are often the first thing targeted — here’s why backups are targeted. That means you need copies in a location your attacker can’t reach. Backups need to be immutable, isolated, and independent of your production systems. It’s not enough to say you have a backup. You need to know you can get it back when it counts.
Mistakes by admins: The most common cause of data loss
We all make mistakes. I’ve been in this field long enough to say that with confidence — even great admins on a good day can misconfigure something. The problem is, with today’s systems, small changes can have major ripple effects.
Retention policies are a great example. Someone misconfigures a retention policy and sets it to 9 days instead of 90. Or a PowerShell script gets deployed with the wrong scope and clears out a folder structure. These are honest mistakes, but they carry real consequences.
Then there are more complex cases — like the major U.S. bank that trusted its SaaS provider’s default retention policy. There was a bug in the logic. The result? Federally mandated records were deleted. By the time anyone realized, the recovery window had passed, and the bank’s risk committee had to be notified.
No matter how well-trained your admins are, in a world where every IT team is under crushing pressure to do more, faster, with less, mistakes are guaranteed to happen.
Recovery tip: Your backup strategy has to account for people. The good ones, the tired ones, the well-meaning ones who just made a bad change — and the ones who might mean harm. That means external, versioned backups you can access independently — even if someone on your own team made a critical change or deleted something maliciously. And more than that, it’s about building trust and a strong security culture. People need to feel comfortable admitting when something went wrong, before it escalates.
Mishaps at your cloud provider: The shared responsibility reality
Even the biggest cloud providers have bad days. In September 2024, Microsoft lost weeks of security logs for some customers due to a bug in their internal monitoring agents. Earlier, Google Cloud deleted critical pension data of one of Australia’s largest pension providers due to a misconfiguration of the Google Cloud VMware Engine (GCVE). The customer had no way to get it back through Google, but they fortunately had their own third-party backup in place.
And these mishaps aren’t rare. These kinds of failures may be complex, but they’re not impossible. If your DR plan assumes your cloud vendor won’t mess up — or that they’ll be able to fix any problems they cause — you’re gambling.
Recovery tip: Shared responsibility means your vendor protects the infrastructure — not your data. They essentially promise not to lose all of your data at the same time—not to help you recover if you lose all your data at the same time. If something gets deleted, overwritten, or lost due to their error (or yours), it’s your responsibility to recover. That’s why independent backup, stored off-platform and regularly tested, is so important.
Migration gone bad: Underestimated and over-impactful
Migrations should be straightforward — but they rarely are. They’re a little like home renovations in that they always take longer than expected, cost more than planned, and something breaks along the way.
In larger transitions, like moving from one cloud provider to another, things can go completely sideways. A large EU retailer migrated to Google Cloud and experienced serious sync and data integrity issues. They didn’t have a rollback plan. Their recovery hadn’t been tested. They were stuck.
We like to think of migrations as upgrades. But they’re also risk windows — times when data is in transit, systems are shifting, and safeguards are at their weakest.
Recovery tip: Treat migrations like disaster scenarios. You need complete, point-in-time backups of everything critical before you cut over. And you need to test recovery as part of the migration plan. If you don’t, you might find yourself restoring yesterday’s lunch menu while your billing system stays offline.
Final thoughts: Plan like it’s going to happen, because it will
There’s a recurring theme in every scenario I’ve laid out: testing. Not theory. Not a spreadsheet. Actual, practiced, verifiable recovery testing.
It’s not enough to say you have a disaster recovery plan. You need to prove it works — to yourself, to your team, and maybe even to regulators. That’s where real resilience comes from. Not from wishful thinking, but from preparation.
You can’t predict every attack. You can’t prevent every mistake. And you can’t control what your cloud vendor does. But you can control how you prepare, and how quickly you bounce back.
So test your plan. Test it again. And if it fails, fix it now — not during an actual incident.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/german-digital-sovereignty/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-01-20T14:20:49+01:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Why German CISOs need to rethink their cloud decisions
Digital sovereignty as a strategic imperative
In recent years, digital sovereignty has shifted from a niche concern to a core strategic priority — especially in Germany, where trust, data protection, and independence have long been valued. The latest State of Cybersecurity report from HarfangLab — based on a Q2 2025 survey of more than 800 IT and cybersecurity leaders across Germany, France, Belgium, and the Netherlands — underscores this shift. Seventy-eight percent of European executives surveyed say their company’s leadership is more concerned about digital sovereignty today than a year ago. That awareness is particularly strong in Germany (81 percent) and France (83 percent). At the same time, 70 percent believe European companies are too dependent on foreign technologies and should reduce this reliance — prompting seven in ten organizations to consider switching to European cybersecurity providers.
This shows a growing awareness of the legal and geopolitical dimensions of digital infrastructure — and rising expectations for providers and operators.
What happens in a crisis or conflict?
It’s no longer enough to focus only on technical performance or the feature sets of cloud providers. Decision-makers are increasingly asking: Where is our data physically located? What laws apply? Who could theoretically or practically access it — and what happens in a crisis or conflict?
For many companies, these are no longer abstract questions. They’re central to risk management and long-term digital strategy.
These questions resonate strongly in Germany, where the tradition of data protection runs deep. Strict data protection laws were in place well before the GDPR. This makes Germany well-positioned to lead the current debate on digital sovereignty in Europe. Regulations like the GDPR and the NIS2 Directive provide a clear and binding framework — pushing decision-making toward greater responsibility, transparency, and long-term resilience.
The impact of extraterritorial laws
Another critical issue is the impact of extraterritorial laws like the U.S. CLOUD Act. This law allows U.S. authorities to access data from U.S.-based companies — even if that data is stored on servers outside the U.S., including in Germany. For many companies, that’s a contradiction: How can you control your own security architecture if foreign governments can legally access your sensitive data?
This reality shows that technical security isn’t enough — what’s needed is control over the contractual, technical, and legal frameworks.
In this context, it’s no surprise that many organizations are revisiting on-premises models or hybrid architectures. But the desire for control mustn’t stall innovation. There are alternatives to full in-house management. At Keepit, we’ve developed a cloud backup architecture purpose-built for the needs of European companies. We run our own independent infrastructure across several global regions — including the EU, in Germany and Denmark — and enforce strict separation between zones. Data stored in Germany stays in Germany. Access from other regions — even within our own systems — is technically impossible.
Our independence from hyperscalers like AWS, Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud is also key. This strategic choice protects our users from global dependencies and indirect access paths. By owning and operating our infrastructure, we guarantee not only where data is stored but also who controls access — with full transparency. Our users know where their data is, what jurisdiction it falls under — and who isn’t allowed to see it.
No need to compromise
For Keepit, digital sovereignty isn’t a theoretical ideal. It’s a cornerstone of modern cybersecurity. The latest HarfangLab report makes it clear: Companies in Germany and across Europe are no longer willing to compromise when it comes to control over their data. The path to a sovereign and secure digital future may not be simple — but with the right partners and carefully chosen infrastructure, that future can be shaped.
At Keepit, we’re here to support that journey — with transparent, compliant, and self-operated solutions. Because digital sovereignty isn’t just about data protection — it’s the foundation of resilience and the ability to act in an increasingly complex digital world.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/google-cloud-deletes-unisuper-account/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:12:59+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Can your cloud provider accidentally delete your data?
In May 2024, UniSuper, an Australian superannuation fund managing $135 billion for 647,000 members, faced an unprecedented crisis when their entire Google Cloud account — including backups — was suddenly gone. Surprisingly, the culprit wasn’t ransomware or a cyberattack.
What happened to an entire company’s Google Cloud account?
Rather, a misconfiguration within Google Cloud's system led to the deletion of UniSuper’s entire account. This "one-of-a-kind event,” as described by Google, wiped out UniSuper’s cloud subscription and its backups stored across multiple geographic locations.
The result was a nearly two-week outage that left members without access to their accounts.
Timeline and response
The ordeal began on May 2, when UniSuper’s online systems went offline. Members were unable to check their superannuation accounts, leading to concerns and frustration. On May 8, UniSuper CEO Peter Chun and Google Cloud CEO Thomas Kurian issued a joint statement explaining the situation. They clarified that the outage wasn’t due to a cyberattack and that no personal data had been exposed. Instead, an internal error within Google Cloud’s provisioning system caused the deletion.
On May 15, full restoration of services was achieved, and UniSuper members could access their accounts once again.
Apology and assurance
Chun and Kurian apologized for the "extremely frustrating and disappointing" disruption, emphasizing that it was an isolated incident with no precedent among Google Cloud’s clients globally. They assured stakeholders that Google Cloud had identified the sequence of events leading to the deletion and had implemented measures to prevent such occurrences in the future.
Restoration efforts
Restoring services was a monumental task. Despite having duplication measures to protect against data loss and outages, the deletion affected all backups across both geographic locations where UniSuper’s data was stored.
Typically, such duplication ensures that if one service goes down, it can be restored from another location. However, in this case, all duplicated data was lost simultaneously because it was stored within the same logical infrastructure (i.e., same cloud) rather than being protected via a multi-cloud setup.
Backup and recovery
Fortunately, UniSuper had maintained additional backups with an independent third-party provider, which proved to be the saving grace and played a crucial role in the recovery process.
These external backups minimized data loss and significantly aided UniSuper and Google Cloud in restoring core systems.
Per UniSuper’s official statement, 'UniSuper had backups in place with an additional service provider. These backups have minimised data loss and significantly improved the ability of UniSuper and Google Cloud to complete the restoration.'
Lessons learned
This incident highlights the critical importance of having a robust, multi-layered backup strategy in line with the 3-2-1 backup principle, particularly for organizations handling sensitive and substantial financial data. Relying solely on a single cloud provider for backup, even one as reputable as Google Cloud, can pose significant risk.
The adage of “don’t keep all your eggs in one basket” applies: Don’t keep all your data and backups in the same logical infrastructure. Backups must be kept in a separate cloud. Implementing a third-party, independent cloud backup solution provides an essential safety net — also known as air gapping. Read why air gapping is your best defense.
How do you ensure business continuity?
Following data protection best practices (such as data immutability) and leveraging multi-cloud data protection solutions ensures access to business-critical data. One such solution is Keepit, which offers comprehensive and easy, guaranteed access to backups.
Keepit’s platform ensures that all data is readily available online, allowing administrators to provide employees with direct links to their data, enabling rapid restoration of the most business-critical information.
This means employees can continue working seamlessly without waiting for a full system restore, prioritizing critical tasks such as email access and other essential functions.
Conclusion
UniSuper’s experience is a stark reminder of the potential data protection gaps when relying on one single cloud service for SaaS backup. A robust disaster recovery plan must include independent cloud backups to ensure data can be restored quickly and efficiently from multiple sources, thereby providing the ability to recover no matter what happens, be it ransomware or misconfiguration.
The UniSuper incident underscores the need for comprehensive data protection strategies.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/hope-is-not-a-strategy/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-04-17T09:56:25+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

2025 was the test: Why hope is not a cybersecurity strategyÂ
As security leaders, we spend a lot of time preparing for what might happen. But the past year has made something very clear to me: the question is no longer if disruption happens — it’s whether organizations are ready when it does.
Looking back at 2025, the signals are hard to ignore. AI-driven threats are accelerating. Shadow AI is spreading faster than governance can keep up. Outages, infrastructure failures, and hybrid disruptions are no longer theoretical. And yet, too many organizations are still relying on optimism instead of preparation.
Hope is not a strategy.
The threat landscape is accelerating — and democratizing
Cyberattacks are not just becoming more advanced. They are becoming easier to launch.
Over time, we’ve seen two trends converge: attacks are growing more powerful and complex, while the barrier to entry continues to fall. Capabilities that once required nation-state resources are now accessible to individuals. AI is increasingly used for reconnaissance, planning, and execution, making attacks faster, more scalable, and harder to predict.
From a CISO perspective, this fundamentally changes the risk model. We are no longer defending against a small number of highly sophisticated actors. We are defending against a much broader threat landscape where automation works just as effectively for attackers as it does for defenders.
Shadow AI is today’s silent risk
One of the most underestimated challenges I see right now is shadow AI. In most cases, it isn’t malicious. People are trying to work faster, automate tasks, and solve problems. But many AI tools store, transform, or act on sensitive data — often without governance, ownership, or visibility.
The real issue isn’t intent. It’s speed.
AI adoption is happening faster than most organizations can apply guardrails. By the time security teams become aware of what’s in use, data may already have been shared, altered, or consumed in ways that are difficult — or impossible — to reverse.
That creates legal, ethical, and regulatory exposure without a traditional breach ever occurring.
Governance needs to catch up
AI introduces governance challenges that cannot be fixed after the fact.
Once AI systems are embedded into critical workflows, recovery becomes significantly harder when something goes wrong. That’s why governance must come before scale — not after.
Clear frameworks that emphasize transparency, monitoring, ownership, and compliance help make AI risk manageable. You can’t eliminate risk entirely, but you can reduce it to a level your organization understands and is prepared to handle.
Waiting until something breaks is the most expensive way to learn where your controls are weak.
Hybrid threats are now the norm
Today’s incidents increasingly span cloud services, SaaS platforms, onâprem environments, and physical infrastructure. Attacks pivot across environments. Outages cascade. Natural disasters, power failures, and infrastructure disruptions intersect with digital dependency in ways traditional security models were never designed to handle.
From a resilience standpoint, this means one thing: you have to understand your dependencies and plan for failures that don’t fit neatly into a single category.
When the cloud goes dark, what’s your plan?
Many organizations assume availability because systems are “in the cloud.” But recent outages have shown how fragile that assumption can be. When email, identity systems, collaboration tools, and documentation are unavailable at the same time, recovery depends entirely on preparation.
True resilience requires:
- Independent backups outside the production ecosystem
- Clear prioritization of critical systems
- Recovery plans that still work when normal communication channels are unavailable 
 
Without those elements, teams are forced to improvise — and that’s when mistakes happen.
Recovery is about people and process, not just technology
The organizations that handle incidents best aren’t the ones with the most tools. They’re the ones that have done the work before something happens: defining priorities, clarifying responsibility, aligning leadership, and practicing recovery together.
Tabletop exercises and simulations matter because they expose assumptions and force decisions in a controlled environment. They help teams understand not just what to restore, but who decides — and in what order.
Resilience is never a oneâperson job. It’s a leadership responsibility and a crossâteam effort.
From hope to resilience
Across AI risk, shadow adoption, hybrid threats, and cloud dependency, the lesson is consistent: organizations that succeed don’t hope to avoid disruption — they assume it.
- They assess and categorize risk.
- They plan and prioritize recovery.
- They test restores and run exercises.
- They demand architectures that support isolation and immutability. 
 
 
2025 was the test. And it made one thing clear.
In a world of accelerating automation and converging threats, optimism is not enough.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/how-important-is-a-backup/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T02:24:07+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Podcast: How important is a backup?
In this podcast Keepit’s Paul Robichaux and podcast host Thomas Stensitzki talk about the principle of “shared responsibility” between SaaS vendors like Microsoft, Google and Salesforce, and their customers. The two discuss how to protect cloud data and ensure business continuity. And they also touch on the differences in data regulations for businesses operating in the EU and USA.
And don’t worry: Although the brief introduction is in German, the rest of the podcast is in English.
Podcast featuring Keepit’s own Paul Robichaux
Paul Robichaux is Senior Director of Product Management at Keepit and a Microsoft MVP (Most Valuable Professional) – a title he has been awarded every year since 2003. Paul has worked in IT since 1978 and held a number of CTO and senior product development positions in the software industry. Paul is a prolific contributor to the Microsoft community: He is the author of an impressive amount of books and articles about Microsoft technologies, including the best-selling Office 365 for IT Pros, a contributing editor for Practical 365, and produces a continuous stream of videos, podcasts, and webinars. He is based in Alabama, USA. Find Paul on LinkedIn and Twitter.
Hear the full podcast on Thomas’ Tech & Community Talk.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/identity-blind-spot/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-05-07T11:13:54+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

The identity recovery blind spot: Why identity systems are tested far less, and why thatâs risky
If you want to start a lively argument among IT people, ask a deceptively simple question: “What’s your most important SaaS application?”
You’ll get answers like Microsoft 365, Salesforce, ServiceNow, Workday, maybe even “our ERP, which I’m not naming because it’s held together with hope and stored procedures.” All fair answers.
But the one that quietly sits underneath most of those systems — the one that enables access to the rest — is identity. Whether or not you realize it, your identity management (IdM) system is your most important SaaS application, because without it, nothing else works.
That’s why one data point in the Keepit Annual Data Report 2026 jumped out at me, hard: organizations test restores for identity systems roughly four times less often than they test restores for productivity systems.
Let’s just pause there for a second, because the irony is impressive.
Identity is the thing that controls who gets in to your Microsoft 365 tenant. It’s the gatekeeper for Salesforce. It controls access to basically everything. And yet, when it comes to restore testing, identity is the thing we practice the least.
That’s not just a gap. It’s a blind spot.
The “brain and body” problem: Entra ID is the brain, Microsoft 365 is the body
I’ve said for a while that Microsoft Entra ID is the brain and Microsoft 365 is the body.
Microsoft 365 is where the work happens: mailboxes, files, Teams chats, calendars, documents, workflows, and all the things people point to when they say “the business runs on this.”
Entra ID is what makes those things usable: authentication, authorization, conditional access, tokens, app registrations, service principals, group membership, role assignments, device identity, and on and on.
If the body gets hurt, you can often work around it—at least for a while. Someone loses a file? Restore it. A mailbox gets mangled? Recover it. A Teams channel disappears? Bring it back.
But if the brain goes offline, it doesn’t matter how healthy the body is.
When identity access fails, users don’t “lose a document.” They lose the ability to reach the entire SaaS estate. And in many organizations, that means downtime that spreads fast.
Why do we test identity recovery so much less?
The report is observational — it’s based on what organizations actually do, not what they say they do. So it doesn’t speculate about motivations. But having spent a lot of time with customers (and their scars), I can tell you there are some predictable reasons identity recovery testing gets neglected:
· Identity failures feel unlikely—until they aren’t. Most people don’t wake up thinking “today is the day our identity system will betray us.” They assume it’s durable, redundant, and managed. Sometimes it is. Sometimes the problem isn’t availability—it’s configuration drift, accidental changes, or malicious changes.
· Identity is scary to touch. Restoring identity objects feels riskier than restoring a file. And honestly, it can be. Identity systems are full of interconnected, high-impact configuration that can break sign-ins in creative ways.
· The blast radius is hard to predict. A bad conditional access change can block an executive. A broken app registration can take down an automation pipeline. A removed role assignment can stop your security team from doing their jobs. These don’t always look like “restore events,” so they don’t always trigger “restore thinking.”
· People confuse “we can rebuild” with “we can recover.” Yes, you can rebuild a tenant. Yes, you can recreate configuration. But doing that quickly, correctly, under pressure, while the business is locked out is… aspirational.
The operational reality: losing identity access can stop recovery of everything else
Here’s the part that makes the “four times less testing” statistic feel dangerous: identity is usually part of the recovery chain, not just part of production access.
In a serious incident, you may need to:
· Access SaaS admin portals
· Access backup and recovery tooling
· Access ticketing and incident communications
· Access runbooks, documentation, and stored secrets
· Access the systems used to restore other systems
If identity is the control plane for your environment, and you can’t authenticate admins, your recovery plan becomes a PDF you can’t open, stored in a SharePoint site you can’t access, behind an MFA challenge you can’t satisfy.
This is the kind of risk that doesn’t show up in neat little RTO and RPO spreadsheets. It shows up when you realize your “restore” procedure starts with “log in,” and you can’t.
Identity recovery isn’t just “restore users”
When people hear “identity recovery,” they often think about restoring user accounts or passwords. That’s part of it, but it’s not the whole story—especially in modern SaaS environments.
A practical identity recovery posture needs to consider, at a minimum:
· Privileged access and role assignments (who can administer what)
· Conditional access policies (what controls sign-in and how)
· MFA and authentication method configuration
· App registrations and service principals (what automations and apps rely on)
· Group membership and dynamic group rules
· Enterprise applications and SSO configuration
· Directory objects that underpin access (including devices, where relevant)
If any of those are compromised or accidentally changed, your “incident” might not look like data loss. It might look like permanent lockout.
And lockout is a special kind of outage because it blocks the very actions you need to fix the outage.
What should identity restore testing actually look like?
This is where I want to be extremely practical.
Testing identity recovery doesn’t have to mean “flip the production tenant on its head once a quarter and see what happens.” (Please don’t do that. Your coworkers will not appreciate it.)
Instead, treat identity recovery like any other operational discipline: define what you’re testing, define success, and practice in a controlled way. Examples include:
1) Test restoring a small, meaningful set of identity objects
 Pick a handful of representative objects—some users, some groups, a couple of app registrations, and a few key policies—and validate you can recover them in a way that preserves expected behavior.
2) Validate break-glass access paths
 Break-glass accounts aren’t glamorous, but they exist for a reason. Validate they work, that they’re excluded from the right policies, and that their credentials and procedures are accessible when you need them.
3) Practice “policy rollback” scenarios
 A surprising number of identity incidents come from well-intentioned changes. Simulate a bad conditional access change and validate how quickly you can return to a known-good state.
4) Include identity in larger recovery exercises
 If you do tabletop exercises or recovery drills, don’t treat identity like “assumed working infrastructure.” Make it an explicit dependency: “How do we recover if identity is impaired?”
A cadence suggestion: test the thing that can lock you out
The report emphasizes testing behavior as a signal of maturity. And I agree with that framing: confidence comes from practice, not from documentation.
So here’s the uncomfortable question implied by the data: if identity systems are tested four times less frequently than productivity systems, what does that say about our real confidence in identity recovery?
I’m not going to prescribe a universal cadence for every organization. But I will say this:
If your identity system is the gatekeeper for your SaaS environment, then testing it “occasionally” is not a strategy. It’s hope.
At minimum, identity recovery should be practiced regularly enough that:
· The people responsible know the process
· The process doesn’t rely on tribal knowledge
· The access paths are validated
· The recovery sequence is understood (what comes first, what depends on what)
The big takeaway
It’s easy to talk about backup and recovery in terms of terabytes and retention periods. It’s harder—but more useful—to talk about it in terms of operational reality: what do you do when something breaks, and can you do it under pressure?
The Keepit Annual Data Report 2026 gives us a rare lens into what organizations actually practice. And one of its clearest signals is that identity recovery testing is lagging—by a lot.
If Entra ID is the brain and Microsoft 365 is the body, then neglecting identity recovery testing is like doing physical therapy while ignoring the possibility of a stroke.
It’s not that restoring files doesn’t matter. It does. But if you can’t authenticate, you can’t restore anything else.
That’s the identity recovery blind spot. And it’s worth fixing , before you’re disowned by your own identity infrastructure...

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/immutability/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T02:24:10+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Why you need immutable data protection in your ransomware strategy
And why a lean, purpose-built tech stack is the way to do it
Immutability is a key feature that plays a pivotal role in safeguarding data integrity, boosting data resilience, and protecting data against threats, including ransomware, but certain considerations need to be addressed when evaluating backup solutions. Let's look into the concept of data immutability, its significance, and what it means for Keepit’s SaaS data protection platform.
Data immutability definition: Why it’s important
Immutable storage operates on a simple principle: Data can only be added. Once data is written, it can’t be changed, effectively locking it and preventing any unauthorized tampering or deletion. In the context of data protection, this means that once data is stored immutably, it remains unchanged and is safeguarded against unauthorized modifications or deletions, ensuring data integrity at all times.
How an immutable backup solution will enhance your overall security posture
The importance of data immutability in data protection is multifaceted. Here’s a quick rundown of some of the main drivers for deploying a solution leveraging data immutable technology:
- Data integrity: First, immutability ensures that data remains in its original, unaltered state, preserving its integrity. This is critical for basically all industries.
 
- Ransomware defense: In the battle against ransomware, data immutability offers a robust defense. Here’s why: Even if ransomware infiltrates a system, it cannot manipulate or delete immutable data. Because of this, it’s providing a secure fallback option for data recovery.
 
- Compliance and legal requirements: Since regulatory bodies require organizations to maintain unaltered records for a specified period of time, having a backup solution that guarantees this is vital. In this way, immutability helps organizations meet these compliance requirements.
 
- Historical data preservation: Immutability enables organizations to keep historical data records that are unchangeable. This is valuable for auditing, investigations, and analysis of past data.
So, which features should you look for when evaluating backup options that all offer immutability? First, I’d say simplicity, because it’s not always simple.
“Simplicity as a shield”
Who doesn’t like a good acronym hijacking: Software as a service (SaaS) meets “simplicity as a shield.” Our solution distinguishes itself in data backup and recovery by having the most efficient tech stack. It’s cloud native and purpose built for SaaS data storage with the clear security goal of keeping data tamper proof and always immutable.
But what does simplicity mean for defining immutability and how it impacts a data protection strategy? Or alternatively, what does complexity mean for immutability? Let’s look at both, starting with the latter.
Vulnerabilities for backup providers with complex adaptations
Many backup providers have legacy systems that were initially designed for on-premises environments. In order to adapt to storing cloud data, these providers had to implement bolt-on solutions via additional layers to their old, on-prem tech stack, resulting in a much more complex architecture.
There are two main considerations that I want to discuss, from a security standpoint, with cloud adaptions to on-premises solutions: First, the complexity is significantly increased with the added layers required to retrofit an on-premises deployment for the cloud, thereby increasing the attack surface and potential attacker entry points; Second, these bolted-on layers often have immutability as a configuration, not baked into the architecture.
While these top layers often offer options for manual configuration to achieve immutability, this configurability and added complexity create potential entry points for attackers. Effectively, this results in more entry points — more “doors” that bad actors will come knocking on to see if someone forgot to lock up. (Read about why backups are key ransomware targets.)
To make matters worse, the complexity added by having those extra layers makes comprehensive testing challenging. More potential entry points with less comprehensive testing means a larger attack surface to protect and test to ensure that they’re secured. That’s not great for data integrity, ransomware defense, or historical data preservation.
In solutions deploying these bolt-on cloud adaptations to “modernize” legacy systems, attackers can exploit these optional higher levels (I say optional since these levels only exist because they’re modifying an on-prem solution for the cloud). These retrofitted legacy systems can be (and should be) thought of as having more potential access points for threats.
Retrofitted complexity: The Achilles’ Heel of many backup solutions?
"Defenders need to be perfect all of the time, while the attacker only needs to succeed once."
-Popular security axiom
So, where does all this lead to? As a result of these legacy on-premises systems being retrofitted for cloud data, cybercriminals are finding easier entry points into the targeted environment, gaining access (Think: social engineering like phishing) into the ecosystem at these more vulnerable higher levels (where the stakes perhaps don’t seem so severe) before drilling down through the layers to lower-level access with their highjacked rights.
Here they can then gain entry to the lowest, most-important (and secure) levels to corrupt, encrypt, or otherwise destroy backup data — attackers typically assume access at a higher level, but the main concern here is that if the assumption that the higher the level you go, the easier entry is, then those solutions with the highest complexity would also be the most vulnerable.
To say it another way: The deeper the layer of attempted entry, the fewer chances for access and exploitation. Therefore, less complex solutions — “less complex” meaning something good because you’re more deliberate on the design — have fewer options to exploit and can be tested much more holistically. That’s a win win.
There are three notions I want to keep top of mind:
- Typically, higher levels can be immutable, but sometimes these must be configured manually.
- Attackers use these “immutable optional” higher levels as easier entry points and then drill down to the immutable, lower-level access points with assumed access rights they acquired.
- Having fewer layers means a smaller attack surface for exploitation. Simple is a good thing because it means you’re more deliberate on the design (and can test more holistically).
What an efficient tech stack means for cyberattack defense
Unlike legacy systems with bloated, bolted-on complexities, Keepit’s purpose-built and streamlined architecture minimizes potential access points for threats. The leanness of our software means having fewer layers of complexity and therefore having fewer points of entry for threat actors. Not only that, but since it’s simpler, we can test holistically (and testing is key).
Put simply, Keepit has fewer layers since our tech stack is purpose built for cloud data storage. In this way, it avoids a lot of the complexity other backup providers “need” to have but only because they’re running legacy systems from the on-premises days with bolt-on cloud modifications.
The level of leanness, efficiency, and simplicity we’ve achieved directly adds to the strength of immutability in our solution.
We’re able to achieve this because we designed our solution for the cloud, in the cloud, and to do “one thing” extremely well, and that’s to protect and store cloud SaaS data securely on an independent cloud, air gapped, so customers can always have access to clean backup copies of their data.
Simplicity is key: Fewer layers are much more secure
SpaceX, the company that revolutionized commercial spaceflight, has a philosophy that states "the best part is no part," which resonates here. By embracing simplicity and efficiency in design, Keepit aligns with a principle that’s also reaching for the sky (well, the cloud at least) — it's a design choice that enhances security, boosts efficiency and agility, and integrates seamlessly with a multitude of SaaS applications due to its API-only design.
Software can be infinitely complex, with no way to test everything (among other issues, like development and maintenance). From a security standpoint, if your solution is too complex, there’s just no way you could test sufficiently. And so, simplicity is key. That’s my philosophy and the philosophy behind Keepit.
Immutable by default
Deep at the core of the Keepit platform, there’s simply no way to overwrite data in storage: It’s just not possible. Like the backup tapes of the past, our disk-based storage systems do not offer a mechanism for modifying backup data. Hypothetically, even if an attacker — or a malicious insider — were to gain access, they just couldn’t do anything there. That’s immutability.
So, our approach disrupts the pattern ransomware attackers are exploiting in other backup solutions. By providing a more secure foundation through not only avoiding these superfluous layers, but by being designed specifically for cloud backup data storage, we leverage immutability through simplicity.
In addition to immutability, we leverage a number of other data protection best-practice security methods.
Adding to immutability: Data protection best practices
Some of our other security methods deployed for data resilience and data immutability are the immediate encryption of backup data, incremental backup, and data deduplication.
The Keepit solution is running on a vendor-independent, tamper-proof and air-gapped cloud infrastructure. Our cloud offers true backup, where data is stored separately from the primary production data set, regardless of if the data is in Microsoft Azure storage, AWS, Gcloud, or otherwise.
“True backup” is air gapped in line with the 321 backup rule, meaning your ability to recover clean backup copies is always there, regardless of the status of your SaaS vendor.
To sum up what makes Keepit’s approach to data immutability uniquely strong against ransomware and other cyberthreats:
- Cloud native: Our tech stack is purpose-built for cloud data storage, so we avoid unnecessary layers of complexity and the associated vulnerabilities with legacy systems.
- Efficient tech stack: Our efficient tech stack minimizes potential access points and reduces the overall attack surface.
- Holistic testing: The simplicity of our solution (remember, simple is good) allows for more holistic testing, ensuring a robust and secure environment.
- Immutability: Administrative access cannot overrule or unconfigure the immutability as it is baked into the solution from the ground up, so even if a customer account is fully compromised, the immutable data storage will retain the historical backup data in pristine condition.
Where to go next
This post is part three of a five-part series on ransomware resilience. Read part one “Why backups are key ransomware targets” and part two “Why air gapping is your best defense.” Check back soon to catch the fourth installment of the series, where we’ll discuss the importance of SaaS data protection for identity systems like Microsoft Entra ID.
Want to keep learning? Watch our on-demand webinar co-hosted with Enterprise Strategy Group (ESG) entitled “Surviving ransomware: 2023 data protection insights and strategies.” Learn how to be data resilient in the face of cyberattacks.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/innovision-cyber-insurance/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T02:52:18+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Real-world recovery: The role of cyber insurance in ransomware resilience
Cyberattacks, particularly ransomware, have become one of the most pressing threats to organizations today. As businesses increasingly rely on cloud-based platforms like Microsoft 365, they are exposed to new risks. Having a solid backup strategy is critical, but as cyberattacks evolve, companies must also consider additional layers of protection, such as cyber insurance.
In this article, I’ll share how INNOVISION helped one of our clients navigate a serious cyberattack, and how cyber insurance complemented their recovery efforts to build true resilience.
INNOVISION and our role in cloud resilience
As the founding CEO of INNOVISION, I’ve spent years helping businesses across the globe enhance their data protection strategies. INNOVISION, headquartered in French Polynesia with a business footprint in Mauritius, New Zealand, and France, works with an ecosystem of handpicked partners to provide cutting-edge SaaS data protection solutions.
As an elite partner of Keepit, we have been able to support businesses in regions like the South Pacific, Caribbean, Indian Ocean, and Africa, ensuring they are prepared to face the digital challenges of today.
Recently, one of our clients — a cloud-only company operating in a highly sensitive sector — suffered a ransomware attack that compromised their Microsoft Entra ID (formerly Azure Active Directory). Due to the confidential nature of the case, I can’t disclose their name or industry, but what I can share is how the combination of Keepit’s backup solutions and cyber insurance played a critical role in their recovery.
Understanding the importance of backup and insurance
The cyberattack that hit our client was sophisticated. Administrative accounts were compromised, user accounts were deleted, and sensitive data was almost exfiltrated. While our team quickly identified the impacted areas and restored the compromised accounts by using Keepit, significantly reducing downtime and the impact of the attack, we also recognized early on that recovery tools alone don’t protect the business from all financial losses.
Cyber insurance came into play when the customer needed to navigate the legal and financial implications of the breach. While backups helped restore data, maintain operational continuity, and greatly mitigate the impact of the attack, the cyber insurance policy covered the costs associated with the incident — from forensic investigations to legal fees and regulatory penalties. This case highlights the importance of a multifaceted, diversified cybersecurity strategy which focuses on layered defenses.
How cyber insurance and backup systems come together
Many organizations believe that having either cyber insurance or backup and recovery systems alone is enough to protect them from cyberthreats. However, incidents like ransomware are not just about data loss or financial losses; they involve both significant costs as well as data loss and service interruptions that can cripple a business.
In our client’s case, the insurance policy covered the costs of the incident response team that helped them understand the full scope of the attack — this is where cyber insurance added another layer of security. It also helped cover the regulatory fines that followed, as the company operates in a sector where data protection and compliance are paramount. Without the financial buffer provided by insurance, the client would have faced severe financial hardship, despite having a robust backup solution in place.
Additionally, cyber insurance required the client to show evidence of their cybersecurity practices, including their backup strategy. This requirement forced the company to continuously improve their resilience efforts. Keepit’s ability to demonstrate compliance with key data protection standards became a valuable asset during the insurance claim process, as it proved that they had taken necessary precautions before the breach.
Insurance is a safety net, not a replacement for preparedness
While cyber insurance can mitigate the financial impact of an attack, it should never be seen as a replacement for having strong cybersecurity measures and a comprehensive backup strategy. In fact, most cyber insurers will require businesses to demonstrate their preparedness before issuing a policy. This includes everything from encryption standards to immutable backups and geographic redundancy. You can read more about insurability controls and cybersecurity frameworks in an article by Keepit’s CISO, Kim Larsen.
In our client’s case, their insurance claim would not have been successful if they hadn’t been able to prove that they had proper data protection systems in place. Keepit’s advanced features — such as its ability to store historical logs and perform seamless identity and data recovery — were instrumental in demonstrating that the company had the right precautions in place before the breach occurred.
Cyber resilience: A multi-layered approach
This experience taught both us and our client that true cyber resilience is a combination of proactive and reactive strategies. The proactive side is all about preparing for the worst with robust backup and cybersecurity measures. The reactive side is having the financial safety net that cyber insurance provides, as well as fast data restore, so when an incident does occur, businesses can recover without significant financial harm.
Our client learned that even with strong recovery tools in place, cyber insurance was crucial to navigating the financial aftermath of the attack. The combination of these two strategies — backup and cyber insurance — ensured that they could restore their operations quickly while mitigating the long-term financial impact.
Conclusion: Preparing for the inevitable
In today’s threat landscape, the question is no longer if an attack will occur, but when. Having a robust backup strategy is essential for operational resilience, but cyber insurance plays a key role in protecting the business from the financial impact of these incidents. As ransomware and other forms of cyberattacks continue to evolve, organizations must adopt a multi-layered approach to cybersecurity, with backup and recovery systems serving as the last line of defense.
At INNOVISION, we encourage all of our clients to invest in both comprehensive backup solutions, like Keepit, and a reliable cyber insurance policy. Together, these tools can ensure that when the inevitable happens, businesses are not just able to recover their data but survive the financial fallout of an attack.
This article is part two of a two-part series sharing a real-world customer story on cyber resilience. In part one, we explored how SaaS backup solutions helped the same company recover quickly from a cyberattack. Read part one entitled "Real-world recovery: SaaS data backup as the cornerstone of cyber resilience."
To learn more about cyber insurance, watch Keepit’s on-demand webinar with SaaS data protection experts:

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/innovision-recovery/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T02:52:18+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Real-world recovery: SaaS data backup as the cornerstone of cyber resilience
In today’s digital landscape, where cloud-based services like Microsoft 365 dominate, cyber resilience has become a top priority for organizations. Businesses are increasingly relying on SaaS (software-as-a service) platforms, assuming that all their data is secure. However, without the right backup strategy, they may find themselves vulnerable in the face of data loss or a cyberattack.
In this post, I want to share a real-world experience from a client that highlights the importance of SaaS data recovery and how it plays a crucial role in maintaining operational continuity.
A crisis unfolds
One of our partner’s clients, who remains anonymous due to confidentiality agreements, faced a daunting cyberattack that compromised their Microsoft Azure AD (Entra ID). Like many businesses, they believed their data was safe in the cloud, under Microsoft’s protection. What they didn’t realize, however, is that Microsoft’s services are not immune to data loss or breaches, and the responsibility for safeguarding data ultimately lies with the customer. This is part of what’s known as the shared responsibility model, where cloud providers handle infrastructure security, but data protection remains the customer’s responsibility. Read Microsoft’s shared responsibility in the cloud (source: Microsoft).
When the attack occurred, the client was caught off-guard. Administrative accounts were compromised, some user accounts were maliciously deleted, and there were attempts to exfiltrate sensitive data from SharePoint. The customer’s crisis committee immediately launched an investigation, but they quickly ran into a roadblock: Azure AD only retains logs for 30 days, making it impossible for them to perform an in-depth forensic analysis of what had transpired.
The flow of recovery
By using Keepit backup and recovery for Microsoft Entra ID (formerly Azure Active Directory), we were able to act quickly in response to the cyberattack in three broad steps:
- Downloaded the last 12 months sign-in and audit logs of Entra ID for investigative analysis using Keepit’s unlimited storage and retention capability.
- Traced when and what changes happened on the compromised accounts using Keepit for Entra ID metadata previewer feature.
- Restored the affected user accounts along with their configurations and permissions without needing to recreate accounts from scratch using Keepit for Entra ID’s powerful recovery features.
The power of backup
This is where Keepit became a game-changer. By leveraging Keepit’s robust backup capabilities, we were able to provide the customer with access to logs that spanned an entire year. This historical data was critical for the investigation, as it allowed the customer to trace the breach back to its origins, determine the extent of the damage, and understand when the attack had taken place.
But data recovery goes beyond simply accessing logs. The compromised user accounts needed to be restored, along with all their associated settings (metadata) — something that would have been a nightmare without the right backup solution. Keepit’s ability to restore not just user accounts but also their configurations, MFA settings, and group memberships ensured the client could recover quickly without having to start from scratch. If the client had relied on a standard backup solution, the process would have taken significantly longer, jeopardizing their recovery time objective (RTO).
The lesson: Backup is non-negotiable
This experience underscores a key lesson: Having a comprehensive SaaS data backup and recovery strategy is essential to cyber resilience. It’s not just about restoring files but about maintaining business continuity, even when the unexpected happens. The ability to quickly recover from a breach can mean the difference between a short disruption and a prolonged, business-threatening downtime.
For companies operating 100% in the cloud, like our client, backing up identity systems (such as Entra ID) is as crucial as backing up files. When administrative accounts are compromised, and there’s no backup, organizations face the risk of losing more than just data — they risk losing control over their entire cloud environment. Read more on why Microsoft Azure AD needs to be backed up in the cloud.
Cyber resilience starts with recovery
The ease and speed with which we were able to restore the client’s operations, thanks to Keepit, reaffirmed the central role that data recovery plays in cyber resilience. It's not just about preparing for attacks but also about having the right tools in place to recover from them. This customer, through our guidance, has now included Keepit as a key component in their cyber resilience strategy. They understand that backup is no longer a nice-to-have; it’s a critical aspect of their business continuity planning.
In a world where the question isn’t if an attack will happen, but when, the ability to recover swiftly is a vital need. With Keepit, we were able to help our client turn what could have been a catastrophic breach into a manageable incident, all thanks to a well-implemented SaaS data recovery strategy.
This article is part one of a two-part series sharing a real-world customer story on cyber resilience. In part two, we look into how cyber insurance played a critical role in protecting a business from the financial impact of a ransomware attack. Read part two entitled "Real-world recovery: The role of cyber insurance in ransomware resilience."
Want to learn more about ransomware recovery? Watch Keepit’s on-demand webinar:

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/inside-real-threat/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-01-21T14:27:31+01:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Inside a real breach: How immutability broke the kill chainÂ
In cybersecurity, timing is everything. Breaches don’t unfold over days or weeks, they unfold in minutes — sometimes while the coffee is still warm. During our Black Hat webinar, I walked through a real case where attackers moved fast, only to find an unbreakable barrier: immutability.
The attack: Minutes to compromise
It started with a single click. A support admin opened a link that looked harmless, but inside it was a token-stealing phish. Nothing flashy, no Hollywood montage, just a quiet grab.
Within one minute the crew, later tied to the China-linked group Silk Typhoon, had a valid session cookie, and that cookie walked past multi-factor prompts and conditional access checks like it owned the place.
In the second minute, they chained the stolen token with a zero-day vulnerability and dropped a tiny web shell into a Kubernetes pod running in an Azure cluster. One command later they dumped Microsoft 365 service principal secrets, and suddenly they had delegated rights across dozens of tenants — no alarms, no drama, but very effective.
The perimeter collapsed almost instantly.
The next move: Kill the evidence, kill the backups
Attackers know that as long as backups exist, recovery is possible, so the first play is classic anti-forensics:
- Purge audit logs to blur the timeline
- Send bulk delete calls to take out restore points
- Erase the evidence and remove the safety net.
It’s simple and cruel.
The break in the kill chain
Then came the turn, when around minute five the plan failed. The backup storage layer used WORM (write once, read many) immutability applied at ingest. When the delete calls hit, the system answered with a hard stop: 403, object locked.
No matter how many admin flags they flipped, history would not budge, and the storage refused to honor them. That’s the sound of an attacker bouncing off glass.
From minutes to days: The gift of time
The breach moved fast, but immutability stretched the incident response window into days, and in security, days are a lifetime.
That time meant the defenders could investigate, rotate secrets, contain scope, and recover — not argue with someone on a leak site.
The takeaway
Backups are always a target, and the last line of defense is the first thing an attacker tries to remove. However, when backups are immutable, deletion attempts will fail, even with powerful credentials in hand.
In this case, the difference between containment and catastrophe came down to immutability, full stop.
If you want the full walk-through with live commentary, click on the on-demand session, and bring a coffee.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/intelligent-ciso-nis2/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:20:07+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Why UK IT teams need to prepare for NIS2: Insights from Keepitâs CISO
ComplianceSeptember 20, 2024 | 5 minutesBy Kim Larsen
As cyberthreats continue to evolve, so do the regulations designed to protect critical infrastructure. In a recent interview with Intelligent CISO, our chief information security officer discusses why UK businesses should be preparing for the EU’s upcoming Network and Information Systems Directive (NIS2), even post-Brexit.
In this insightful piece, you’ll learn:
- How NIS2 aligns with the UK’s own cybersecurity frameworks, including the proposed Cyber Security and Resilience Bill.
- Why early adoption of NIS2 standards can strengthen business relationships with EU partners.
- The role NIS2 plays in boosting cyber resilience and incident response strategies.
Don’t miss the full article on how your organization can stay ahead of the curve and enhance its cybersecurity posture.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/intelligent-resilience-blog/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T02:52:17+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Intelligent resilience: The future of SaaS data protection
Today, data isn’t just important, it’s everything. This puts data resilience at the center of business continuity. Increasingly, more and more business-critical data lives in SaaS applications: according to BetterCloud organizations use an average of 112 SaaS aps in 2024. That number was 80 in 2020.
And according to analyst firm Forrester, eighty-two percent of enterprise cloud decision-makers say that their organizations have adopted or are adopting public cloud.
The challenge? Protecting that data from loss, corruption, or cyber threats—without disrupting day-to-day operations – becomes more complicated in the cloud.
It also becomes critical to get it right, which means not just prioritizing the ability to recover from data loss, but also prioritizing the capabilities and foresight to stay ahead of risks in the first place. In other words, “intelligent resilience” —making smart choices before disaster strikes and future-proofing your SaaS data so your business keeps running, no matter what.
What does intelligent resilience look like?
Achieving intelligent resilience requires a proactive approach. At Keepit, we break it down to four steps:
- Identify what data needs protection.
- Identify risks—and how to mitigate them.
- Identify the right tools and partners.
- Test and implement what you’ve learned for a safer tomorrow.
Sounds simple, right? But not all data protection solutions are built for intelligent resilience. Many are adapted from legacy systems or come with hidden costs and complexity. Keepit takes a different approach:
As global experts in SaaS data protection, we’ve purpose-built a cloud platform that ensures businesses can recover and restore their data without delay. But we also take backup and recovery a step further.
Keepit is intelligently built
Not all backup solutions are created equal. Many legacy vendors have repurposed on-premise technology for the cloud—but retrofitting doesn’t always mean readiness. Keepit is cloud-native and purpose-built for SaaS environments.
- Scalable and adaptive. Unlike on-prem solutions forced into the cloud, Keepit scales seamlessly as your business grows.
- Purpose-built for SaaS. Our solution is designed to work smoothly across applications, ensuring seamless protection.
Security is at the core of everything we do. Keepit employs AES encryption directly on our storage systems and ensures end-to-end encryption both in transit and at rest. Our traffic flows securely over major internet exchanges, eliminating unnecessary exposure.
And most importantly, our backups are immutable by design. That means once data is stored, it cannot be changed or deleted—guaranteeing true protection against ransomware attacks or accidental deletions.
Keepit delivers intelligent insights and recovery
Backing up data is just one part of the equation. The real value comes from how quickly and efficiently you can access, restore, and act on that data.
Instant access to all versions of your data
- No waiting for hydration periods—data can be previewed, shared, or restored instantly.
- An intuitive search function and audit logs make it easy to track changes.
Flexible restore options
- Recover data in bulk or at a granular level, ensuring fast and precise restoration.
Actionable insights
- A centralized dashboard provides real-time visibility into backup and recovery health.
- Early warnings help detect anomalies or threats before they become major issues.
- Integration with security tools ensures data protection is part of a broader security strategy.
Transparency and accountability
- Custom reports document compliance and disaster recovery readiness, giving businesses confidence in their resilience strategy.
Keepit is the intelligent choice
Choosing the right data protection solution isn’t just about features—it’s about value. Keepit is built to be cost-effective, time-saving, and independent.
Predictable and stable cost
- Simple, seat-based pricing with unlimited storage
- No hidden fees—no charges for data ingress, egress, or transfer.
- Customizable retention, ensuring you store what you need for as long as you need it.
Time-saving usability
- No maintenance or infrastructure required—freeing up IT teams for core business initiatives.
- Easy setup and an intuitive interface ensure rapid adoption.
Vendor-independent cloud in your chosen region
- Keepit operates independent data centers in seven regions across three continents.
- Our fully separate backup environment ensures your data is never tied to the same infrastructure as your production environment.
Resilience starts with intelligent choices
Intelligent resilience isn’t just about recovering from failure—it’s about staying ahead of it. Keepit empowers businesses to protect their most valuable asset—data—without complexity, hidden costs, or vendor lock-in.
Because in today’s digital world, data resilience isn’t optional. It’s essential.
Keepit: Intelligent data protection for today and tomorrow.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/intelligent-resilience-strategic-imperative/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-02-16T09:10:06+01:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Intelligent resilience: A strategic imperative
Rethinking data protection
As reliance on digital infrastructure grows, so must our approach to resilience. Most organizations have a data protection strategy in place. We all understand the importance of safeguarding data and the severe impact that disruptions — whether from cyberattacks, system failures, or natural disasters — can have on business operations. But as reliance on digital infrastructure grows, so too must our approach to resilience.
In this article, we move beyond traditional data protection to explore a new paradigm: Intelligent resilience. This approach goes beyond basic recovery strategies by integrating real-time visibility, anomaly detection, and automation, delivering faster, smarter, and more secure recovery processes.
What is “intelligent resilience?”
Intelligent resilience represents a proactive and adaptive approach to data protection. Rather than simply reacting to incidents, it leverages real-time insights and predictive analysis to anticipate risks and minimize disruption.
Through powerful features such as Keepit’s Data Protection Dashboard and Anomaly Detection Dashboard, IT teams gain enhanced visibility into data activity, empowering them to identify irregularities and mitigate risks before they evolve into critical incidents.
Keepit’s Data Protection Dashboard
Keepit’s Data Protection Dashboard offers unparalleled transparency into the state of your backups and recovery points. IT teams can monitor backup status, identify gaps, and gain instant insights into data integrity and compliance.
This real-time visibility allows organizations to be proactive rather than reactive, ensuring that data is not only safe but also recoverable at a moment’s notice. This kind of real-time monitoring is a foundational element of intelligent resilience, as it enables immediate action when issues arise, mitigating risks before they become critical.
Anomaly Detection for real-time threat awareness
One of the standout features of intelligent resilience is Keepit’s Anomaly Detection Dashboard. This system continuously scans for irregularities in data patterns, flagging potential threats like ransomware or data corruption before they escalate.
Anomaly detection empowers IT leaders with predictive insights, allowing them to intervene swiftly and prevent downtime or data loss, helping you stay ahead of the curve.
Shifting from reactive to proactive
Traditional disaster recovery models are inherently reactive: a system fails, and then recovery begins. Intelligent resilience flips this model on its head by incorporating real-time monitoring and predictive capabilities.
With Keepit’s dashboards, IT leaders can:
- Detect threats before they disrupt operations
- Optimize backup and recovery times
- Ensure compliance and data integrity continuously
- Visualize risks and recovery paths proactively
By embracing this forward-thinking model, organizations are not just responding to incidents — they are actively preventing them.
Building intelligent resilience: A step-by-step guide
1. Evaluate your current strategy Begin by assessing your current data protection policies and recovery plans. Identify gaps in visibility, automation, and real-time monitoring.
2. Leverage advanced dashboards Integrate Keepit’s Data Protection Dashboard for comprehensive backup monitoring and the Anomaly Detection Dashboard for early threat identification.
3. Automate recovery processes Remove human error and accelerate recovery by automating key processes like failover, replication, and disaster recovery orchestration.
4. Ensure governance and compliance Intelligent resilience demands transparent audit trails and constant compliance monitoring — both of which Keepit’s platform enables.
5. Test and adapt regularly Intelligent resilience isn’t static; regular testing and updates are essential for maintaining robustness against emerging threats.
The path forward
Intelligent resilience is more than just a concept — it’s a strategic imperative for businesses aiming to thrive in an unpredictable world. By integrating advanced monitoring, anomaly detection, and real-time visibility through Keepit’s solutions, IT leaders can achieve unprecedented levels of security and reliability.
The time to rethink cyber resilience is now. With intelligent resilience, disruptions are not just managed, they are mitigated before they happen. It’s time to move resilience forward.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/keepit-hot-archive/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-07-20T09:38:00+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Keepit Hot Archive: Archive your SharePoint data without losing access to it
SharePoint Online has a way of quietly becoming one of the biggest line items in a Microsoft 365 bill. Sites multiply, files accumulate, and before long you're paying production storage prices for data nobody has opened in years.
Most of that data can't simply be deleted: It may be needed for reference, for audits, or simply because someone will ask for it eventually. So, it sits in production, and the costs keep climbing — both the direct storage costs once you exceed your included limits and the indirect cost of managing data that no longer earns its place.
That's the problem Hot Archive is built to solve — and if you're already protecting SharePoint Online with Keepit for Microsoft 365, the solution is closer than you think.
What is Hot Archive?
Hot Archive is a new stand-alone add-on for Keepit for Microsoft 365 customers. It lets you move rarely used SharePoint Online data out of production and into long-term preservation within Keepit — while keeping it fully accessible via the Keepit platform’s always-hot storage. Hot Archive isn't a separate archiving product; it's an add-on capability built on top of the Keepit backup and recovery solution you already use.
Here's how it works:
- Identify the SharePoint sites or individual items you want to preserve
- Archive the selected data into a dedicated archive connector in the Keepit platform
- Stub the data from SharePoint production automatically
- Remove SPO data via scripted operation or manually
- Access it whenever you need it — browse, preview, download, and restore on demand
The result: Your SharePoint production environment gets leaner and cheaper to run, and your archived data stays a few clicks away instead of disappearing into cold storage.
Why “hot” matters
Traditional archiving treats archived data as data you've set aside: it goes into cold storage, and getting it back involves friction. Microsoft's own archive tier for SharePoint is a good example. It's genuinely useful for what it does, but it's cold storage — content archived for more than seven days takes around 24 hours to reactivate, reactivation runs through the SharePoint admin center rather than the end user, and once you've reactivated content, you can't re-archive it again for several months.
That friction is fine for data you're almost certain you'll never touch, but it's a real problem for data that's merely resting: the project that gets revived, the site legal suddenly needs, the files a returning customer asks about. Another detail to consider is that Microsoft’s archiving doesn’t include stubbing.
With Keepit Hot Archive, archived data is still readily accessible. You can restore it on demand, and there are no restrictions on moving data between production and the archive. Your archive connectors appear in the Keepit platform alongside your connectors, with the preview, download, and restore capabilities you already know from Keepit for Microsoft 365.
Why not just use Keepit backups?
That's a fair question. The need is to reduce SPO production data volumes. As a Keepit for Microsoft 365 customer, your SharePoint data is already backed up, but today, everything follows the same retention, and everything stays in SharePoint production, where it keeps costing you money.
Hot Archive changes that. Automated scans, ignore rules, and data selection features let you build dedicated archive connectors that hold only the data you've chosen, with their own retention. Then you can confidently remove that data from production — because you know exactly where it is and how to get it back without any friction.
The result is that SPO production data volumes can be reduced without any reduction in accessibility to the archived data within Hot Archive.
What do I need to run it?
You need an active Keepit for Microsoft 365 subscription — Hot Archive builds on your existing SharePoint Online protection and isn't available as an independent product. Hot Archive is a customer-configurable module: Your team installs, configures, and runs it.
What's next for Hot Archive?
This release covers SharePoint Online, where storage costs bite hardest — and it's the first step in a bigger plan. We're building full archiving capabilities directly into the Keepit platform, with an iterative rollout starting in Q4 2026: no module installation, rule-based scanning with multiple parameters, full reporting and auditing, and the same experience as setting up any other connector. From 2027, we plan to expand coverage to other data sources.
Frequently asked questions
Is Hot Archive a preview, beta, or trial?
No. Hot Archive is a fully functional, supported, and paid-for Keepit product, delivered as a stand-alone add-on module.
Who is it for?
Keepit for Microsoft 365 customers who need to preserve large amounts of SharePoint Online data and want to reduce their storage costs.
Do I need to be a Keepit customer to use it?
Yes. Hot Archive is an integral part of the Keepit backup and recovery solution, adding capabilities on top of your existing Keepit for Microsoft 365 functionality. It can't be purchased as an independent archiving solution.
Are there any requirements on my side?
Yes. Your team installs, configures, and runs the Hot Archive module, so you'll need internal technical skills and resources to operate it.
How do I get started?
Contact your Keepit representative. Our product team can support demos and discussions before you sign up.
Are there fees to bring data back from the archive?
No. Restore is on demand, and there are no restrictions on moving data between SharePoint production and your archive.
Why pay for archiving when my data is already in my Keepit backups?
Backups today don't distinguish between frequently used and rarely used data — and the data still sits in SharePoint production, costing you money. Hot Archive lets you build dedicated archive connectors with their own retention, holding only the data you select, so you can confidently remove it from production.
Will my archive connectors show up in the Keepit platform?
Yes. They appear like all other connectors. Some platform capabilities won't be available for archive connectors; this is fully documented.
How is it supported?
Like all Keepit products, Hot Archive is supported in line with the conditions of your service package.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/keepit-partner-network/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:41:09+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Keepit Partner Network: Growing partnerships to the next level
Leading the way with vendor-independent data protection
When I started in Keepit in July 2023, I knew that I was joining a very special company. Not only does the company have a great product, but it also has a great partner ecosystem and the two are key to having an impact on the market.
At the heart of data protection specialist Keepit’s success lies indeed a resilient and purpose-built cloud infrastructure — and also many long-lasting partner relationships.
The company's platform, exclusively owned and operated independently from other cloud vendors, signifies a revolutionary shift in data protection strategies. Serving as the ultimate safeguard against potential data loss resulting from security incidents or unforeseen events, Keepit ensures that its partners empower clients to maintain control over their critical SaaS data.
And it’s not just a few workloads that we cover: Keepit’s unique easy-to-use platform ensures business-critical SaaS data from multiple SaaS applications, like Microsoft 365, Entra ID (Azure AD), Salesforce (and others) is kept immutable, accessible, and compliant with even the strictest of requirements. Learn more about Keepit’s security and compliance.
Keepit’s impressive scaling secures $40 million from HSBC Innovation Banking
On Jan. 9, 2024, Keepit announced that HSBC Innovation Banking has provided Keepit with a $40 million refinancing package together with The Export and Investment Fund of Denmark (IEFO). The fresh capital is earmarked to sustain the impressive growth trajectory and substantial expansion strategy of Keepit.
Keepit CEO and co-founder, Morten Felsvang, shares that the funding “is an infusion of confidence in our capabilities on all levels. And it means that we can continue our growth strategy at full throttle.”
Partners prove invaluable to Keepit’s growth and success
The Keepit Partner Network (KPN) highlights the company's dedication to its channel ecosystem. Tailored for resellers, managed service providers, and distributors, this program elevates partner engagement with its tiered structure, ensuring customized support for diverse partner needs.
KPN is designed to propel partners toward unparalleled success within data protection together with Keepit. The recognition of Keepit with its addition as a scaler in the Canalys "Global Managed Backup and Disaster Recovery Leadership Matrix 2023" report underscores the program's rapid growth and our outstanding performance.
And in support of that commitment to growth, we’re setting our sights on crossing over into the coveted Canalys "Champions" category on our impressive journey by adopting a partner-only model.
Keepit's Partner Network emerges not just as a program but as a strategic cooperation for the future. Partners get the chance to be a hero for customers by offering them award-winning, next-level SaaS data protection that’s transparent in cost and incredibly easy to set up, onboard, and use.
Partnering with Keepit means always being at the forefront of cloud SaaS data protection.
Anders Kaag
CTO of IT Relation
Unlocking the next level with Keepit and partners
Keepit is committed to taking the industry to new heights, and through our Partner Network, we’re doing exactly that. Whether you’re a Value-added Reseller (VAR), a Managed Service Provider (MSP), or a hybrid partner, KPN offers a tailor-made program that goes beyond the ordinary.
It’s no big secret that no one really likes onboarding new tools, but we do things differently at Keepit. That’s why we’ve created the simplest to onboard and easiest to use solution available. Easy to implement, easy to operate, and easy to do business with. It’s a low entry point to start benefiting from Keepit. Customers of VARs and MSPs themselves recognize this, and they’ve gained a substantial advantage with our leading solution and customer experience.
We don’t see a need to offer our clients any other solution – nothing beats Keepit quite frankly.
Stefan Hefele
Head of Managed Services
IF-Blueprint
Key Features of the Keepit Partner Network
The KPN delivers clear, enticing, and more tailored benefits. The benefits aren’t static — they evolve with your commitment, ensuring a partnership that grows and thrives. With a Keepit Regional Partner Manager in most countries and regions, partnering with Keepit has never been easier.
Here’s what you can look forward to:
- Build recurring revenue streams: Deliver industry-leading data protection and security solutions to your customers, ensuring transparent costs and unparalleled ease of use.
- Focus on growing business together: Join us in creating joint go-to-market strategies, guaranteeing customer success and providing fully automated data protection across all popular SaaS apps like Microsoft 365, Entra ID, Salesforce, and Google Workspace.
- Amplify and retain your gross profit: Unlock incentives, boost and retain gross profit, and cultivate a long-term recurring revenue stream without the burden of operational expenses.
- Diversify your offerings: Stand out from competitors with the most comprehensive SaaS data backup coverage available.
- Adopt Keepit your way: Tailor your approach by managing customers with our ready-to-use Partner Management Console or seamlessly integrating services into your preferred systems with our APIs.
We’re looking to establish partnerships for the future along two main tracks: The Value-added Reseller (VAR) track and the Managed Service Provider (MSP) track. Regardless of your track, we’ll support you in every step of our journey together with partner empowerment.
Here’s eight ways Keepit supports your growth:
1. 24/7 partner support
2. Partner Management Console
3. Sales resources and training
4. Deal registration
5. Global co-sell support
6. Rebates and discounts
7. Co-marketing opportunities
8. MDF funds
“Growing” forward, together
As we continue to grow, we want inspired partners to join us on this transformative journey to get to the next level, together, because we know that we’re better together. Whether you're a VAR or an MSP (or something in between), the Keepit Partner Network is tailored to elevate your businesses — and to unprecedented heights. We have an impressive growth strategy that we’d love to have you alongside of us pushing forward.
We are very delighted about the new Keepit Partner Program. The fair requirements and multiple benefits strengthen our cooperation and are an excellent basis for further exponential growth in the new SaaS Data Backup as a Service market segment.
Matthias Schick
Director Solution & Practice Management Security & Software
Bechtle
Ready to embark on a journey of growth and innovation? Together, let's shape the future of data protection and create lasting success. Learn more about partnering with Keepit. Are you ready to empower your business?

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/keepits-ease-of-use/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:41:08+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Why customers love Keepit's ease of use
The Keepit approach to the 5 quality components of usability
One prominent aspect of Keepit's cloud backup and recovery solution that customers rave about most is its simplicity and ease of use. Where other similar solutions often require weeks of training, the Keepit solution is plug and play, capable of being implemented and fully operational within minutes – and by everyone on the team. No extensive courses and diplomas are required.
The intuitive ease with which Keepit locates and restores files also means our customers are actively incorporating it into their day-to-day internal support operations, rather than just using it for finding and recovering files that have simply gone astray. The ease of use comes from a dedicated design process, which puts usability up front and users in the driver's seat.
There are many different opinions on what the word usability means, so here at Keepit -- as with many other things -- we are inspired by what we observe in the workplace and then have our take on it that fits our product.
The Keepit Design Hierarchy
Creating and following a design hierarchy goes to the heart of how we build and continue to improve Keepit’s backup solution.
For every design and feature we implement, Keepit follows a clear usability vision that strongly focuses on following a design code.
The hierarchy in which we make design and usability decisions is built around Principles, Pillars, and Patterns.
Starting with our Design Principles, everything we do is based on these principles: They are abstractions of how we design our products and help designers make the right decisions.
Design Pillars are more focused on how we implement designs and how the user should experience the Keepit solution. Pillar example: “The right functionality, at the right time, to the right person.” This Pillar is used rigorously for each feature we create throughout the entire user flow.
- Is this the right functionality being presented to the user?
- Is this the right time to show this functionality?
- Will it work for the person who is going to use it?
Finally, we have Patterns.
Design Patterns are specific implementations of functionality. This could be how we implement breadcrumbs, how we handle truncation, checkboxes, dropdowns, and wizards, just to name a few.
Defining Usability
Usability is a quality attribute that assesses how easy user interfaces are to use. The word "usability" also refers to methods for improving ease of use during the design process.
The most popular definition of Usability has five components, as explained by the Nielsen and Norman Group:
- Learnability: How easy is it for users to accomplish basic tasks the first time they encounter the design?
- Efficiency: Once users have learned the design, how quickly can they perform tasks?
- Memorability: When users return to the design after a period of not using it, how easily can they re-establish proficiency?
- Errors: How many errors do users make, how severe are these errors, and how easily can they recover from the errors?
- Satisfaction: How enjoyable is it to use the design?
There are many other important quality attributes, one of which is utility, which refers to the design's functionality. In other words, does it do what users need?
How Keepit Measures Usability
Learnability in Keepit:
Let us look at the first item: Learnability. The nature of a backup application is not something our users check in to merely to “get a dopamine kick” from watching cool facts about their running backups. Instead, backup is more “set it and forget it,” and usually, our users come to the platform for one of two reasons. One, is to make sure that everything is running as it should. Two, is to restore data that was lost.
For many of our users, the fact that the application is so easy to learn and understand saves them much time, money, and the frustration of being unable to find the data that needs to be restored.
Memorability in Keepit:
Our approach is not just that things should be easy to learn but also that they must be easy to get back into after being away for a period of time. We do this with a consistent system: most things work in a predictable, similar way, following the same ideas. This increases the chance that something is memorable and easy to re-learn. There are, of course, many things we do to improve the memorability of Keepit, with consistency and recognizability of the applications they are backing up being just some of them.
Efficiency in Keepit:
All of this leads to Keepit’s Efficiency. We like to look at efficiency from the point of view that you should “take the time to look before you jump.” This means we do not consider “few clicks” a success criterion in itself, but rather, we consider “carefully placed” clicks as a step in the right direction – i.e., solving the problem with just the right number of clicks.
Errors in Keepit:
Naturally, we do everything within our power to ensure the number of mistakes made in relation to the task being solved is at a minimum and that a tight correlation exists between the number of errors the user is making and the solution's efficiency. Every time the user makes an error, it sends them back into the flow, and they will have to redo actions, which again leads to an ineffective solution. Learnability and memorability directly impact the user's errors, so everything is connected, as you can see.
Satisfaction in Keepit:
Finally, there is one more thing to address: satisfaction. Satisfaction is a tricky topic to discuss when talking about a solution that’s practical in nature and does not contain any real incentive to be a pleasurable experience. In the Keepit design, we have gone to great lengths to fight against the tendency of “functional design” that flourishes in the world of IT management tools. Instead, we have moved toward the concept of “emotional design” because IT administrators also deserve good tools.
In functional design, where the idea that showing everything all at once means more control and empowered admins, Keepit believes showing the right thing, at the right time, to the right person offers the ultimate degree of control and empowerment. We also believe that creating a pleasurable and satisfying experience with administration tools like Keepit, where everything “just works,” frees up administrators to focus on other priorities.
Final thoughts
Despite our mission to create the perfect solution that requires no previous knowledge to recover data, we are painfully aware that achieving perfect usability is a goal yet to be reached. But we strive every day to get there.
That said, we recommend that our users regularly make sure they understand the flows and the emergency training so that in the case of an emergency, they know exactly what to do and when to do it, which we’ll save for a future blog post.
At Keepit, we put a lot of effort into ensuring that the design leaves little room for mistakes and is easy to pick up again after a long vacation - even for an inexperienced administrator.
Help The Keepit Design Team
We are always looking for people who would like to provide feedback on our solution and help us create the best design in the world. Please sign up here if you are interested in becoming part of the user feedback forum.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/litigation-hold-cloud-backup/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:20:10+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Is Litigation Hold a replacement for backup in Microsoft 365?
What is Microsoft Office 365 Litigation Hold? Is it backup?
We get asked this question often, and at face value, it’s easy to see how one could equate litigation hold with backup – both have something to do with "preserving" data.
However, the reality is that backup and litigation hold differ on many points, and any company that fails to understand the differences between them (and the utility of each) will eventually learn the repercussions the hard way. Let’s explore the key differences between litigation hold and backup.
What is the Definition of Litigation Hold? What is a legal hold?
The term "litigation hold" comes from US case law (2003, Zubulake v. UBS Warburg) where the judge ruled: "once a party reasonably anticipates litigation, it must suspend its routine document retention/destruction policy and put in place a 'litigation hold' to ensure the preservation of relevant documents." This need may come in the form of a notice of litigation hold.
What is Litigation Hold?
In 2010, Microsoft introduced a litigation hold (sometimes referred to as legal hold) retention feature for Microsoft Exchange to support eDiscovery. The feature was intended primarily as a way of preserving data should there be a legal need to preserve it for access and viewing during a litigation. Think of it as being for documentation purposes, not as a way to restore data back in place to operating platforms like Microsoft 365.
Microsoft later added the ability to create what they call in-place holds, which are holds based on a query (such as “find all messages containing the phrase ‘Project Starburst’). The back-end implementation of litigation and in-place holds are slightly different; you can see more details in Microsoft’s documentation.
Let me say it again, slightly differently: Litigation hold wasn’t designed with the intention of serving as a backup service. Yet, some still try to rely on it as a backup solution, particularly to make ends meet when not having a designated data security plan (including a third-party backup solution), with the reasoning that “some sort of data preservation is better than none, right?”
However, there are many drawbacks and substantial risks associated with these types of setups that lead to a risky, false sense of data security. Some of the shortcomings and risks of relying on litigation hold as a backup are:
- Data storage quotas capped at only 110 GB
- Some eDiscovery features require additional-cost licenses; if you don’t buy the licenses, you can’t use the features
- User mailbox data is only kept while an Exchange Online license is assigned to the user. When a user leaves or becomes inactive, removing the license will eventually remove the data.
- Recovering data needs an administrator and is a time-consuming process
- The held data is not physically separate from the original copy
The bottom line is that you can’t depend on litigation hold or in-place holds as mechanisms for general-purpose recovery from mistakes or disasters. That’s not what they’re meant for, and you run the risk of losing data if you try to use them for that purpose.
What is backup?
Backup, by definition, provides one or more additional copies of your data, stored in a location physically separate from that of your primary dataset.
Physical separation is a fundamental facet of backup, since storing your backup data in the same location as the primary data represents a single point of failure. Effectively, there is no data redundancy in these types of setups.
With traditional on-premises backup, the physical separation rule meant having an off-premises backup stored in another building - so that in the event of a disaster, e.g. a fire in one building, would not destroy all your data. For cloud backup, it’s fair to ask "what cloud does my backup data go to?" The answer is usually either "Microsoft Azure" or "Amazon Web Services." Ideally, you want that data going to a cloud not operated by your SaaS application vendor (so, it wouldn’t be fair to put your Microsoft 365 data into Azure); otherwise, you’re violating the physical-separation rule.
Any service that is not providing this separation of copies is not—and should not be—considered a true backup.
At Keepit, we talk a lot about the "3 Ms" that can cause data loss: mistakes made by people; mishaps at the SaaS application vendor; and malicious actions from inside or outside the organization.
Following data protection best practices, a properly executed backup scheme provides against all three of the Ms if anything should happen to the primary (original) dataset: malicious action in the form of a ransomware attack or a disgruntled employee; mistakes where someone with legitimate access accidentally deletes important data (or needs to back out changes they didn’t want to keep); and mishaps, where the service provider has an outage or data loss.
Litigation holds can’t protect you against all 3 of the Ms: there’s no physical separation, limited ability to do large-scale restores, and no real concept of version control.
What to look for in a cloud SaaS backup solution
Besides the must-have features of data redundancy and availability, a worthy backup solution will offer a multitude of convenience and productivity-boosting tools and services, further distancing it from litigation hold. The first thing to look for is a solution that’s purpose-built for the cloud, not a refurbished or reskinned on-premises solution. Rather, a good, dedicated third-party backup solution.
Here are some of the key benefits to look for in a dedicated third-party backup solution:
- Simple, quick restoration of the data you need, when and where you need it, in the format you need it
- Direct restore from live storage, with no waiting for offline or near-line storage
- An intuitive interface for quickly and easily finding and previewing specific files or messages before storing them
- Secure, immutable storage in an independent cloud
- Flexible geographic storage options to cover your data sovereignty requirements
- A predictable and transparent cost model, with no hidden surprise charges for data ingress, egress, or storage
For more insight into data protection in the cloud era, get an in-depth look via the e-guide on Leading SaaS Data Security. Or, if you’d like to learn more about Keepit backup and recovery services for Microsoft 365, Salesforce, Google Workspace, and others, visit our services overview page.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/make-the-api-work-for-you/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-02-03T09:34:46+01:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Make the APIs work for you
Say you've taken the wise decision to have your corporate cloud data be backed up by the Keepit cloud solution: you've selected one of our many data centers, configured relevant connectors, and are now seeing how snapshots are blissfully parading into eternal archive as you log in to the Keepit web user interface. But perhaps you want a bit more assurance and perhaps you are not keen on logging into a separate web application several times a day to get that assurance.
Many of our customers have their own monitoring solutions and communication systems that they wish to enrich with information from their Keepit account. Luckily, we have a very elaborate API (Application Programming Interface) to allow for all sorts of queries on the state and history of your backups; while we do publish the full API documentation, some might find a small appetizer easier to comprehend.
If you’re already a Keepit customer and if you have an account and working connectors, then this blog post will guide you through creating a PowerShell API agent that prints the timestamp of the last completed backup on your screen. It is very simple: it will not integrate into any monitoring or alerting system, it will not print fancy messages in any messaging platforms, nor will it draw graphs on its own - but it is a small building block that you can extend and transform into whatever you might need.
Getting Access to the API
In order to make calls to the API, your script needs to have the proper credentials and those are obtained through the web user interface. So, log in with a user that has at least 'Job Monitor' privileges and create an API token by doing: Users -> Your user - Edit User (the grey cog wheel) -> Security -> Add API token. Give the token a name and decide when it should expire; the API token cannot outlive the user it is associated with. Click 'Create' – confirm your password and you will get an API token username and password. Those you need to store in a secure place.
You are now ready to make API calls. For this example, we will be using PowerShell, and the first API call to be made is the call to obtain your account GUID. Now, the account GUID is also available in the web user interface, but obtaining this via the API is a nice, small exercise to verify that the API token and your script is working.
Launch your favorite text editor – it can be Notepad, Notepad++, VSCode, Vim, or whatever you fancy the most, create the file accountguid.ps1 and paste this code into it:
try {
        $username = '<API Token username>'
        $password = '<API Token password>'
        $basicauth = [Convert]::ToBase64String([System.Text.Encoding]::ASCII.GetBytes("${username}:${password}"))
        $headers = @{
            "User-Agent" = "PowerShell-Keepit-API-Agent-1.0/jakob-dalsgaard"
            "Authorization" = "Basic $basicauth"
        }
        $response = Invoke-WebRequest -UseBasicParsing `
          -Uri "https://de-fr.keepit.com/users" `
          -Method:Get -Headers $headers -ErrorAction:Stop -TimeoutSec 10 
        $userlist = [xml]$response.Content
        $id = $userlist.user.id
        Write-Host $id
}
catch {
        $line = $_.InvocationInfo.ScriptLineNumber
        Write-Host "Cannot query Keepit API due to: $_"
        Write-Host "at line $line"
}Make sure to get the backticks and single and double quotes correct – computers can be very pedantic. In this file, you need to put in the API Token username and API Token password where specified. On line 11, this example reads 'de-fr.keepit.com' – thus valid for a Keepit account on our German data center – please change this hostname to the hostname of the data center for your account (i.e., 'dk-co', 'uk-ld', 'us-dc', 'ca-tr' or 'au-sy'). Then, in a command terminal, you execute the script by typing:
Powershell .\accountguid.ps1
Depending on your security setup, you might need to confirm that you really want to execute a script, but please do – and you should see the script print out your 20-character account GUID. This GUID can then be used, along with the API Token, to obtain the list of connectors available in your account.
Save the following code block as devices.ps1:
try {
        $username = '<API Token username>'
        $password = '<API Token password>'
        $userguid = '<Account GUID>'
        $basicauth = [Convert]::ToBase64String([System.Text.Encoding]::ASCII.GetBytes("${username}:${password}"))
        $headers = @{
            "User-Agent" = "PowerShell-Keepit-API-Agent-1.0/jakob-dalsgaard"
            "Authorization" = "Basic $basicauth"
        }
        $response = Invoke-WebRequest -UseBasicParsing `
          -Uri "https://de-fr.keepit.com/users/${userguid}/devices" `
          -Method:Get -Headers $headers -ErrorAction:Stop -TimeoutSec 10 
        $devicelist = [xml]$response.Content
        foreach ($system in $devicelist.devices.cloud) {
                $name = $system.name
                $guid = $system.guid
                Write-Host "Name: $name"
                Write-Host "Guid: $guid"
                Write-Host
        }
}
catch {
        $line = $_.InvocationInfo.ScriptLineNumber
        Write-Host "Cannot query Keepit API due to: $_"
        Write-Host "at line $line"
}Again, put in API Token username and password, the Account GUID, and correct the hostname. Then execute as:
Powershell .\devices.ps1
Your terminal will then be filled with a list of connector names and GUIDs, and among those you will have to select one that can be used in the final script that will be called latest.ps1– this script will print out the timestamp of the latest backup performed by one specific connector:
try {
        $username = '<API Token username>'
        $password = '<API Token password>'
        $userguid = '<Account GUID>'
        $connectorguid = '<Connector GUID>'
        $basicauth = [Convert]::ToBase64String([System.Text.Encoding]::ASCII.GetBytes("${username}:${password}"))
        $headers = @{
            "User-Agent" = "PowerShell-Keepit-API-Agent-1.0/jakob-dalsgaard"
            "Authorization" = "Basic $basicauth"
        }
        $response = Invoke-WebRequest -UseBasicParsing `
          -Uri "https://de-fr.keepit.com/users/${userguid}/devices/${connectorguid}/history/latest" `
          -Method:Get -Headers $headers -ErrorAction:Stop -TimeoutSec 10
        $history = [xml]$response.Content
        $tstamp = $history.history.backup.tstamp
        if ($tstamp) {
            Write-Host $tstamp
        }
        else {
                Write-Host "Backup not completed yet"
        }
        exit 0
}
catch {
        $line = $_.InvocationInfo.ScriptLineNumber
        Write-Host "Cannot query Keepit API due to: $_"
        Write-Host "at line $line"
        exit 1
}Again, put in API Token username and password, account GUID, connector GUID, correct hostname, and then execute as:
Powershell .\latest.ps1
If your selected connector has completed a backup, you should now, in your terminal, see the timestamp of completion of the latest backup for this connector. It might look something like:
2022-12-24T18:30:00Z
This would say that the latest backup completed on Dec 24, 2022, at 18:30 UTC. The timestamp is given in the ISO8601 format with the Z designator for UTC.
Further Integration
While such a neat PowerShell script is nice to have on the command line, it will bring much more value as part of a monitoring platform or other reoccurring automatic execution. For your business, it might make sense to execute this script once per hour and alert if no backup has been completed for 24 hours.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/microsoft-365-backup-responsibility/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:13:01+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Why Microsoft's entry into the backup space is good news
Microsoft's recent jump into the backup space with Microsoft 365 Backup signals a significant shift. Paul Robichaux, a seasoned Microsoft MVP and Senior Director of Product Management, shares what Microsoft’s entry to the market means for customers and the broader SaaS data protection community in a contributed article for Storage Magazine.
Read the full article or continue reading for the abbreviated version.
A bit of a surprise — yet welcomed — entry
For years, Microsoft has been synonymous with data integrity measures (think back to trusty-old Windows Backup), yet their prior reluctance to offer dedicated backup solutions for Microsoft 365 left a data protection gap.
“They have been pretty steadfast in ignoring Microsoft 365 as a backup opportunity, broadcasting the message that the native data protection features in the service provide adequate coverage.” However, with the unveiling of Microsoft 365 Backup, a public preview poised for general availability, the narrative is set to change.
You are responsible for your Microsoft SaaS data
Robichaux underscores a critical message: While Microsoft ensures redundancy, the onus remains on users to safeguard their data. Put simply, Microsoft 365 Backup emphasizes that you need backup. This fundamental shift in perception is crucial, especially considering the prevalent misconception that cloud-hosted data is impervious to loss.
The introduction of Microsoft 365 Backup not only validates the necessity of third-party data protection but also ignites conversations around shared responsibility models. Questions like “What components of Microsoft 365 warrant backup?” and “What defines a robust backup strategy?” are being asked.
While Microsoft's solution is a step in the right direction, it's essential to recognize its limitations, notably in coverage and granularity. Moreover, the collaboration between Microsoft and third-party ISVs in leveraging Microsoft 365 Backup Storage opens avenues for innovation and growth.
Ultimately, Microsoft's venture into the backup arena revitalizes discussions on data protection, fostering a more nuanced understanding of shared responsibilities. With Microsoft's influence, Robichaux envisions a future where comprehensive SaaS data protection becomes the norm, ensuring resilience in an ever-evolving digital landscape.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/microsoft-365-backup-storage/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:12:58+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Microsoft 365 Backup: What it means for SaaS data protection
At the Microsoft Ignite conference back in November 2023, Microsoft announced their release plans for their Microsoft 365 Backup service. Now that they’re in a paid public preview, with general availability being slated for basically now (first quarter, calendar year 2024), I thought “what better time than now?” to share my takeaways and what I believe this milestone means for SaaS data protection now and going forward. Here are three main points I’ll cover:
- Welcome Microsoft to the backup space;
- What Microsoft’s backup service means for the SaaS data protection world;
- The Keepit promise.
Welcome to Microsoft into the backup space
First off, let’s give a warm welcome to Microsoft on their entrance to the backup space. As a long-time Microsoft community member, twenty-year Microsoft MVP, and Senior Director of Product Management at an industry-leading data protection vendor, I’d say Microsoft’s entry into the market validates what all the SaaS data protection vendors have long been saying about the strong need for Microsoft 365 data protection.
Ultimately, our mission is to protect critical SaaS data to help companies keep their business-critical data backed up, thereby ensuring continuity and compliance in face of rising ransomware threats. As long-time Microsoft partners — part of the ISV Partner Program — we at Keepit see this as an opportunity to have an even greater impact on the market. How’s that?
Well, we know that an overwhelming percentage of Microsoft’s enterprise customers have no backup. So, naturally, we want to bring that number down to boost cyber resilience of, say, critical infrastructure and critical services, and of course the market in general. So, how does Microsoft releasing their own backup help drive us forward?
Well, for one, it validates what we’ve been doing for more than 20 years. We’re built in the cloud, for the cloud, to protect cloud SaaS data. I guess a bit more practically speaking, another change is that we can now probably drop the top objection we faced from customers over that time: That cloud SaaS data doesn’t need backup.
What does Microsoft 365 Backup change?
Now, let’s get into point two: What does Microsoft 365 Backup mean for SaaS data backup? Well, all the vendors in this space have long had to challenge the popular notion that data being in the cloud was, by default, automatically and perfectly protected. And many of us have talked at length about Microsoft’s shared responsibility model where Microsoft themselves clearly state that you, the customer, are responsible for backup of information and data, including your devices and accounts and identities.
Microsoft has built an amazing record of service quality and resilience, but their primary focus has been on protecting your data against Microsoft losing it. The Microsoft 365 Backup offering is the start of Microsoft’s journey into protecting your data against other threats, including malicious attacks, mistakes, misbehaving automations, and other misfortunes.
The optimist in me hopes that now, with Microsoft themselves developing their own backup service, we can finally put the shared responsibility model into its proper perspective. Of course you need to back up your Entra ID, M365, and other SaaS application data because clearly you are responsible for your data. Why else would Microsoft release a backup service if you weren’t responsible for it all along?
Now, aside from that original objection that perhaps can be laid to rest, at this point, not that much has actually changed with Microsoft’s announcement. That said, there sure is a newly awakened interest in data protection because of this release. This is how I see the typical train of thought playing out in response to the news:
- We clearly need to back up our Microsoft SaaS app data. Why else would Microsoft be offering a backup service themselves?
- Protecting our data is important because it helps us meet our business continuity and compliance requirements, but
- To meet those requirements, we need our data available 24/7.
Let’s dive down a bit more into that last point there. How does a business guarantee access to their data no matter what happens, be it mistakes, mishap, or malice (like ransomware)? The answer is true backup.
The Keepit promise: True backup for cyber resilience
To get to the Keepit promise, we first need to consider what the meaning of backup is. You might come across the term true backup (we use it ourselves from time to time) because ‘backup’ alone has been misused to cover things that it shouldn’t.
The canonical meaning of backup refers to storing instances of your data on an infrastructure separate from your primary data. If something should happen to your production data, your backups won’t be affected since they are separated by a physical or logical air gap.
In cloud computing, a lot of what’s being called backup is actually storing data on the same cloud as the primary data. What this means is that whatever risks you’re exposed to in your production environment would also impact your ‘backup’ data since there’s no separation. For example, an attacker who can penetrate your Entra ID tenant and can pivot into your Azure tenant holds all your Azure-based storage — including, and especially, backups — at risk.
The Keepit promise is to always offer the ultimate in data protection for multi-workload SaaS application data. By building our solution from the ground up for SaaS data protection only, we were able to create an optimized data protection solution in line with best practices like the 321 backup rule. Air gapping, immutability, and a fully redundant independent cloud are all things we’re already offering now in our service. So, it’s more the Keepit reality rather than the promise of adding in things later.
Protecting SaaS data is the Keepit mission and has always been — it’s not a feature we’re tacking on. As specialists in data protection, we provide confidence to thousands of customers that their data is here today and will be here tomorrow via our vendor-independent cloud. We look forward to working with Microsoft now and into the future to continue to lead the way in protecting SaaS data.
As we embark on this new chapter in SaaS data backup, I’d like to leave you with a question: What steps are you taking today to protect your control plane (Entra ID and Power Platform)? If you want to learn a bit more about control plane data protection, read my previous article on why you should back up Entra ID (Azure AD) in the cloud.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/microsoft-ews/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-03-16T11:25:13+01:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

The end of EWS and what it means for your Microsoft 365 backupÂ
Microsoft is sunsetting Exchange Web Services (EWS), and while that may sound dramatic, there’s no cause for alarm — especially if you're a Keepit customer.
What’s happening with EWS?
EWS, the protocol introduced in 2005 to access Exchange mailbox data, will be fully retired by April 1, 2027, with a controllable disablement plan starting in October 2026. But the real shift has already started — Microsoft is updating its own applications and services to stop using EWS.
In mid-October 2025, Microsoft released a message center notification to Microsoft 365 tenant admins reminding them of this change, so we thought it was a good time to talk about what Keepit is doing to prepare. You’ll likely see press headlines that say things like “Microsoft is moving away from EWS, an outdated, insecure technology” — which might sound worrying. But this is a Microsoft-wide transition and has been on the roadmap for a long time.
What is EWS?
Microsoft Exchange Web Services is a RESTful protocol that Microsoft introduced in 2005 to enable access to Exchange mailbox data — like emails, calendars, and contacts. It became the standard interface for Exchange and has been widely adopted by Microsoft and by third-party application developers, including Keepit and all our competitors.
For nearly two decades, EWS has been central to how data is accessed and managed in Microsoft Exchange environments. Over the last decade, Microsoft has been replacing various APIs with a more modern, more secure, and more unified alternative: Microsoft Graph.
So, Graph replaces EWS?
Of course, Microsoft Graph isn’t new. It’s one unified protocol that spans the entire Microsoft 365 platform and across other MS services. The move from EWS to Graph isn’t new either; it’s been in progress, slowly, for years. What’s changing now is the timeline: The shift is entering its final phase. So, while it might come as a surprise to you, Microsoft has been preparing for this and is doing everything to ensure the transition from EWS to Graph is smooth.
What does this mean for Keepit customers and their backups?
The upcoming changes affect all Microsoft 365 customers and vendors — not just Keepit. We’ve known about this transition for a long time and are already working closely with Microsoft to ensure a smooth, seamless shift. As Microsoft adds new capabilities to Graph to bring it closer to parity with EWS functionality, we’re integrating those Graph changes into our product.
Between now and April1, 2027, Microsoft will continue to make incremental changes. There may be minor adjustments behind the scenes, but you shouldn’t notice anything that impacts your data protection.
Think of it like a house renovation: Microsoft is improving one room at a time, not tearing the whole structure down. As they gradually enhance Microsoft Graph, we’ve already started using those new capabilities to replace EWS. The shift will happen step by step, and we’ve been implementing those updates in the background. In fact, we’ve already completed the first major phase of this transition, and I bet you didn’t notice it!
Our goal overall is to deliver the same quality of experience, stability, performance, security, and ease of use as we move to a 100% Graph-powered world. Ultimately, though, Microsoft gets a vote too. They may choose not to bring some EWS functions over to Graph; for example, they have already announced that they will not support backup and restore of Exchange public folders using Graph.
Since Keepit today supports that functionality using EWS, when Microsoft removes EWS, Keepit customers who back up public folders will be impacted. We’re continuously giving Microsoft feedback as they update their plans, and we’ll be releasing updates to our documentation to identify any areas where Microsoft is choosing not to bring Graph to full parity with EWS.
Final word
Our message to customers: There’s no need to worry. Keepit is prepared, aligned with Microsoft, and committed to ensuring your M365 backup remains stable and secure throughout the transition.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/microsoft-sentinel-integration/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-01-21T14:50:03+01:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Keepit integration with Microsoft Sentinel: Export backup insights to your SIEM
Backups are your last line of defense. When something changes around protected data — whether by mistake, misconfiguration, or malicious action — your SOC (security operations center) should see it quickly and act with confidence.
Keepit’s integration with Microsoft Sentinel lets you export relevant backup and audit activity into your SIEM, so detection, investigation, and response happen alongside the rest of your security data.
What data can be exported to SIEM?
- By default: Audit logs — the events most interesting for SOC teams.
- Can be extended: Monitoring signals or anomaly-related events — optional for customers who want additional context. Read about anomaly detection.
Start with audit logs for the clearest, most actionable view of user and system activity around backup and recovery. Extend if/when your team needs broader telemetry.
What’s the benefit of this integration?
How does exporting Keepit logs help security teams do their job?
- Enhanced threat detection. Surface patterns like unauthorized deletions, unusual job failures, or abnormal activity (anomaly detection) that can indicate ransomware or tampering — and correlate with identity, endpoint, or network data in your SIEM.
- Accelerated incident response. Real-time monitoring enables alerts and automated workflows. If a critical job fails or is deleted, the SOC can trigger investigation or isolate affected assets fast.
- Centralized compliance and auditing. Create a single, searchable evidence trail to support frameworks such as ISO 27001, GDPR, and NIST.
- Reduced alert fatigue. Put backup events in context with other telemetry to cut noise and prioritize real issues.
- Unified security visibility. See backup and recovery activity alongside endpoints, identities, and networks for a complete view of posture and recoverability.
How does the integration work?
Keepit makes relevant backup and audit activity available to Microsoft Sentinel so you can monitor, correlate, and respond alongside the rest of your security data. You can set it up in two ways:
- Keepit Azure Resource Manager (ARM) template — a ready-made setup that deploys the required components in minutes. Ideal for a quick, standardized rollout via infrastructure-as-code.
- Azure Function connector — a lightweight, flexible option that pulls data from Keepit and pushes it into Sentinel. Useful if you want to customize shaping or parsing.
Both options ensure your Keepit events are visible and actionable in Sentinel.
Available to all Keepit customers
The Microsoft Sentinel integration is a standard capability included in all Keepit packages and available to all customers and partners. The Microsoft Sentinel integration is planned for the10.11 release which will be at the end of September.
Where to go from here
By integrating Keepit audit logs with Microsoft Sentinel, your security team gains visibility into backup activity, can track regulatory compliance, and can detect anomalies or malicious actions targeting backups — so the team can rapidly coordinate response and recovery. Learn how to deploy the Keepit ARM template to Microsoft Sentinel.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/moving-data-to-the-cloud/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:34:16+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Security in the cloud: The SaaS backup gap challenge â and solution
Even though businesses have been gradually migrating to the cloud for the better part of the past decade, cloud security has only recently become a hot topic due to the drastic shift to remote work.
When the COVID-19 crisis hit, many organizations had to scramble to enable their employees to work remotely. As a result, the adoption of SaaS applications spiked. For all of the benefits of migrating to the cloud, this frenzied adoption of SaaS apps has brought challenges that become more and more clear these days.
For many businesses, the pace at which they migrated to the cloud was necessary for their business to survive – but it sometimes meant sacrificing security in order to get employees up and running as quickly as possible.
Current cloud data security trends
In many instances, organizations adopted applications and tools without the intent of ever using them in the cloud, often euphemistically calling them “bolt-on” solutions.
As a result, they are not robust enough to meet the security demands of a cloud environment and are vulnerable to data leaks – and there are statistics that back this up:
A recent cloud computing study found that 46% of companies use cloud-based applications built for the cloud – while just over half (54%) moved applications used on-premises to a cloud environment.
And over the last year and a half, at least 79% of organizations have been the victim of one cloud information breach. Even more strikingly, 43% of companies have reported ten or more violations in the past year and a half.
Addressing the assumption: SaaS vendor responsibility
So, what makes SaaS data particularly susceptible to data loss – either as a result of human error or malicious intent? The answer: neglecting to back up SaaS data automatically! Only if you proactively choose to back up your SaaS data applications, will you be able to recover your cloud data in the event of system outages, deletions, and breaches.
Many organizations make the dangerous assumption that their SaaS vendor is protecting their data and is compliant with regulations. But in fact, most have no (or very limited) data protection capabilities. Some offer data protection, but many fall short of meeting the range of cloud security challenges organizations face. The vendors only protect the applications (not the data being processed) – let alone the metadata.
Consequently, as businesses integrate and move their work into the cloud, they encounter a fundamental challenge: The security protocols they've put in place on site aren't at all what they'll need in the cloud, where everything is software native and sophisticatedly integrated. The technology built to back up on-prem products is not geared to back up cloud products. It’s a bit like sending a text message to an old landline phone.
How can you protect your company’s data?
According to a 2021 study by Enterprise Strategy Group (ESG), only 13% of companies are in-house responsible for protecting all of their SaaS app data. Meanwhile, the study found that 35% rely solely on SaaS vendors to protect data, while 51% depend on both their SaaS vendor and an independent third-party solution to store backup outside of the production area.
For many companies, their SaaS application data is a mission-critical resource at the core of their operations – and as such, these companies require the highest levels of security. So how should they protect this cloud SaaS data? The best solution is to turn to a true third-party backup and recovery provider to ensure your cloud data is safe and secure, regardless of what your SaaS vendor offers.
Want to know more about Keepit’s security? Read our SaaS data security guide.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/msp-sovereignty/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-06-08T13:34:55+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

The sovereignty gap: Why MSPs must rethink recovery in the SaaS era
As DORA and NIS2 reshape Europe’s regulatory landscape, data sovereignty is no longer a legal abstraction. It is becoming a practical, operational responsibility for MSPs.
Customers are no longer asking where their data is stored. They are asking who controls it, how quickly it can be recovered, and whether that recovery will stand up to regulatory scrutiny.
These questions are landing directly with service providers managing SaaS applications, backup, and critical data environments. Sovereignty is no longer a compliance checkbox, it is becoming a core part of the service MSPs are expected to deliver.
From infrastructure management to data custodianship
For many organizations, MSPs now sit at the center of the data protection strategy. They manage SaaS environments, oversee backup, and ensure continuity in the event of disruption.
This shifts their role significantly. MSPs are no longer just operators of infrastructure, they are custodians of data control.
The challenge is that sovereignty is still often framed as a question of jurisdiction. In reality, it is operational. It depends on whether data can be accessed, controlled, and recovered when systems fail or access is lost.
From uptime and capacity to resilience
Historically, MSP offerings have been built around availability, performance, and cost efficiency. Uptime and capacity defined value, and backup was often treated as a background function.
That model is changing.
Regulation and customer expectations are driving a move toward demonstrable resilience. It is no longer enough to say data is protected - MSPs must prove that it can be recovered, within defined timeframes, and under real-world conditions.
Operational data reinforces this shift. The recently published Keepit Annual Data Report 2026 shows that:
- 90% of restore actions are single-file recoveries, reflecting how frequently real-world data loss occurs
- Most restore activity happens during working hours, highlighting that recovery is an everyday operational need, not a rare event
Resilience is not theoretical. It is tested daily in small but critical ways and MSPs are increasingly expected to support that reality.
The hidden dependency risk in SaaS
The widespread adoption of SaaS has made recovery more complex.
Most organizations rely on multiple SaaS platforms to run critical parts of their business, often assuming those platforms provide comprehensive data protection. In reality, responsibility is shared.
SaaS providers ensure availability, but long-term data protection and recoverability often sit elsewhere. For MSPs, this introduces a dependency risk that is not always visible to customers.
If access to a SaaS platform is disrupted, whether by cyber incident, misconfiguration, or outage, recovery may be constrained by the platform itself. This creates the sovereignty gap: the difference between having data stored somewhere and having meaningful control over it when it matters most.
A maturity gap and an opportunity to guide readiness
Restore behavior scales with organization size: 28% of SMBs restore regularly, versus 91% of commercial and 95% of enterprise organizations. This is often a natural outcome of resourcing - larger firms have more dedicated IT capacity, while SMBs may treat restores as an “as-needed” task. Even major outage events didn’t produce a measurable increase in restore testing, showing that awareness alone doesn’t create routine readiness.
That’s where MSPs and vendors can make the difference: lightweight, guided recovery checks that build confidence quickly and raise maturity over time - supported by guided recovery assistance that helps admins take the right steps when it matters.
Designing services for sovereignty
Closing the sovereignty gap requires a rethink of service design.
Sovereignty cannot be addressed through policy alone. It must be embedded into how services are built and delivered. That means:
- Ensuring data can be recovered independently of the primary SaaS environment
- Reducing reliance on single vendors or platforms
- Regularly testing recovery processes
- Providing customers with clear visibility into recovery capabilities
It also means answering increasingly detailed questions. What happens if access to a SaaS platform is lost? How quickly can data be restored? Where are the dependencies in the recovery chain? 
 
These are no longer theoretical scenarios. They are becoming part of standard due diligence, particularly in regulated industries. 
From service provision to assurance
As expectations evolve, so too does the role of the MSP.
Providers are moving beyond managing infrastructure to delivering assurance. Customers are no longer simply buying services, they are buying confidence that their data can be recovered, operations can continue, and regulatory obligations can be met.
Conversations that once centered on speed, capacity, and cost are now focused on resilience, control, and accountability.
For MSPs, this shift represents a clear opportunity.
Providers that can define and deliver a credible sovereignty strategy will differentiate themselves in a market where performance alone is no longer enough. The ability to demonstrate control, resilience, and recoverability is becoming a key competitive advantage.
Sovereignty redefined
Data sovereignty is evolving.
It is no longer defined by where data resides, but by whether organizations, through their service providers, can truly control and recover it when it matters most.
For MSPs, this is a turning point. Those that move beyond uptime and capacity - and instead design for resilience, independence, and recoverability - will be best placed to meet both regulatory demands and rising customer expectations.
This article was first published by ChannelPro in May, 2026.
Ready to embark on a journey of growth and innovation? Together, let's shape the future of data protection and create lasting success. Learn more about partnering with Keepit. Are you ready to empower your business?

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/mythos-keepit/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-05-12T07:49:57+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

AI is moving cyber risk to machine speed. Your recovery plan isnât.
I’m a CISO. I believe in prevention: patch fast, reduce attack surface, segment, monitor, and hunt.
But here’s the straight truth: if your cyber strategy assumes you’ll always stop the breach, you don’t have a strategy—you have hope. And hope doesn’t survive contact with reality.
In April 2026, Anthropic introduced Claude Mythos (Preview)—described as capable of identifying and exploiting zeroâday vulnerabilities and turning known vulnerabilities into working exploits more quickly. The implication is simple: the path from “weakness exists” to “unauthorized access happens” is getting shorter.
That doesn’t mean the sky is falling. It does mean we need to be honest about what changes when cyber risk moves toward machine speed.
What Mythos changes: the tempo
Historically, the hard part wasn’t finding weaknesses—it was turning them into reliable exploits at speed and scale. That took time, expertise, and money.
When that barrier drops, mean time to exploit compresses and attacker throughput increases: more attempts across more targets, faster.
If you run an enterprise patch cycle, you already know the gap: you can improve it and automate parts of it, but you’re still operating with human constraints, change windows, and business tradeoffs.
Prevention still matters. But when the attacker’s cycle time drops, prevention alone becomes a thinner shield.
What Mythos doesn’t change: backup isn’t prevention
Let’s address the common objection head-on: “This is a prevention issue.”
Correct. At the point of exploitation, this is prevention. Data protection doesn’t stop an exploit at the point of attack. Backup won’t block a zeroâday. Recovery is not a firewall.
So if someone tries to sell you backup as a magic shield, be skeptical.
But once attackers get in, recovery becomes the most important security control you have left—not because it’s flashy, but because it’s decisive.
The real risk is not “breach.” It’s business impact.
Most organizations don’t lose sleep over the abstract idea of “a breach.” They lose sleep over outages, encryption, deletion, corruption, customer impact, regulators asking hard questions, and teams spending weeks trying to work out what “good” even looks like.
Resilience isn’t perfection. It’s recoverability. A breach is an event; recoverability is a capability.
The overlooked threat: “AI vandalism” from the inside
There’s a second angle that deserves attention—and it’s not only external attackers.
As AI agents become more common in IT, we’re introducing autonomous actors with real privileges: tools that can optimize systems, migrate data, clean up repositories, or “fix” configurations. That’s useful — until it isn’t.
If an autonomous agent misinterprets intent—or runs on flawed context—it can corrupt or delete large volumes of data quickly. And because it operates inside the environment, many classic perimeter controls don’t help you.
Call it “AI vandalism” if you like. The point is: data integrity risk is no longer only an external threat model.
So we need a safety net that assumes two realities at once: external compromise is possible (and faster), and internal automation can create highâimpact failure modes too.
What “good” looks like when attackers move faster
If you acknowledge compromise can happen, the question becomes practical: when something goes wrong, can you recover fast, clean, and with proof?
Resilient SaaS data protection comes down to four principles:
1) Independence: reduce dependency risk
A stack that relies on multiple vendors and subâprocessors creates more exposure points — especially when zeroâdays exist and discovery-to-exploit timelines shrink. Independence won’t stop a zeroâday, but it reduces complexity, tightens the blast radius, and simplifies recovery and control.
2) Immutability: the safety net must be out of reach
If attackers gain privileged access, or an internal agent behaves badly, your last line of defense is the copy they cannot tamper with. Immutability is a design requirement: backup data cannot be overwritten, deleted, or silently altered.
The day you need recovery is the day you should assume someone will try to take recovery away from you.
3) Anomaly detection: know quickly when something is wrong
When things move faster, detection matters more. You want early signals: malicious deletion, unusual change patterns, large-scale corruption, before the damage spreads or “good” becomes hard to define.
4) Instant access + granular restore: speed and precision
Recovery isn’t “restore everything.” In SaaS, that’s often slow and disruptive. What you need is the ability to find the last knownâgood state quickly, restore only what was affected (a user, a mailbox, a set of files, specific records), and do it without a full environment rollback.
When attacks move faster, speed and precision in recovery become more valuable than ever.
Three blunt questions every leader should ask
To pressure-test your resilience posture, start here:
- How quickly could you identify the last knownâgood version of your SaaS data—and prove it?
- If admin access is compromised (or automation goes wrong), can your backups still be deleted or overwritten?
- Can you restore only what was affected, fast, without a full environment rollback?
If those questions make you uncomfortable, good. Discomfort is a signal that you’re replacing assumptions with understanding.
Final thought: prevention is necessary — recovery is non-negotiable
We should keep investing in prevention. But modern cyber risk is telling us something clearly: attackers are faster, environments are more complex, and autonomy inside IT is increasing.
In that world, backup stops being a “nice-to-have” technical function and becomes a core part of security strategy — because it lets you restore integrity, availability, and trust after something goes wrong.
Hope isn’t a security strategy. Recovery is.
What should you do next?
Run a restore drill this quarter. Define clear RTO/RPO for your critical SaaS apps. Validate — by testing — that your backups are isolated, immutable, and fast to restore at a granular level.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/nis2-backup-vendor-checklist/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:13:01+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Essential criteria for a backup vendor in the face of NIS2
With the NIS2 Directive deadline approaching, businesses face heightened scrutiny over their cybersecurity measures and data protection practices. Central to NIS2 compliance is the assurance of uninterrupted business operations and the safeguarding of critical data through backup management and disaster recovery strategies.
As organizations prepare to meet the stringent requirements outlined in NIS2, selecting a suitable backup vendor is fundamental to successful compliance. In this article, I’ll provide recommendations for building a vendor checklist to help ensure that essential and important entities are well-equipped to protect their data and maintain business continuity in the face of evolving cybersecurity threats. (Read more about NIS2 requirements.)
If you aren’t quite to the vendor-selection step yet, there’s also a data protection best practices checklist below to help you along in your data protection and NIS2 compliance journey.
A plan for managing business operations during and after a security incident. This means that backups must be up to date. There must also be a plan for ensuring access to IT systems and their operating functions during and after a security incident.
Vendor checklist for NIS2 compliance
Integral to fulfilling the business continuity mandate via backup management and disaster recovery is finding a backup vendor that can fulfill the requirements. When evaluating a backup vendor, you should consider the following:
- Disaster Recovery (DR) policy documentation: A documented Disaster Recovery (DR) policy serves as a roadmap for managing business operations during and after security incidents. It outlines strategies and procedures for ensuring data continuity and resilience, including backup and recovery protocols. Ensure the backup vendor has a documented DR policy in place.
- Data residency control: Data residency control allows organizations to specify where their data and backups are stored (data sovereignty), ensuring compliance with regional laws and regulations such as GDPR. Verify that the backup vendor allows you to control where your data backups reside.
- Vendor-independent cloud: Storing copies in the same logical or physical infrastructure exposes you to risk. By adhering to the 3-2-1 backup rule, storing backups on a logically separate infrastructure eliminates risks associated with keeping copies in primary environments and provides true backup. Choose a cloud backup provider that ensures separation from SaaS vendors. Employ air-gapping measures to safeguard against data loss during public cloud unavailability and prevent ransomware attacks.
- Security certifications: ISO 27001 certified backup and recovery solutions meet the most comprehensive certification requirements possible.
- Immutability and encryption: Immutability and encryption are essential security measures for protecting data at rest and in transit. Immutability ensures that backups cannot be deleted or manipulated, while encryption safeguards data from unauthorized access and cyber threats, maintaining data integrity. Prioritize vendors that leverage immutability and encryption security measures for data at rest and in transit.
- Automated, incremental backups: Automated, incremental backups performed multiple times a day provide a proactive approach to data continuity. By having the most up-to-date data available and easily restorable, organizations can minimize the risk of data loss in the event of unforeseen disasters. Choose a vendor that offers automated, incremental backups multiple times a day.
- Logging and reporting: Comprehensive logging and reporting features enable organizations to track and monitor backup operations effectively. Transparency and accountability in backup processes facilitate compliance with NIS2 requirements and provide insights for optimizing backup strategies.
- Access control and monitoring: Access control and monitoring mechanisms allow organizations to manage and monitor access to their backup infrastructure. Implementing robust access controls reduces the risk of unauthorized access and enhances overall data security by limiting access to authorized personnel.
- Regular testing and documentation: Regular testing of backup and recovery processes is essential for validating their effectiveness and maintaining compliance with NIS2 standards. Documentation of testing procedures and results provides evidence of compliance and helps identify areas for improvement in backup strategies.
Best practices for creating a holistic backup policy
If, however, you aren’t quite at the stage of choosing a backup provider, here’s a checklist which covers data protection best practices to get yourself prepared for the step of selecting a backup vendor:
1. Identify critical business processes and systems that hold that critical data: Start your backup policy by meticulously identifying critical business processes and data crucial for business continuity. This includes safeguarding customer data, financial records, and intellectual property, aligning with GDPR compliance and ISO 27001 certification.
2. Protect identity systems: Recognize the central role of Identity Systems (such as Entity ID and Okta) in user authentication and authorization data. Protecting these systems is paramount to reducing the risk of unauthorized access and data breaches. This practice aligns with NIS2 compliance, acknowledging the critical nature of identity systems.
3. Ensure regular backups: Implement a well-structured backup schedule or automated scheduling to ensure regular backups. This proactive approach safeguards data continuity in the face of unforeseen disasters, aligning with ISO 27001 checklist requirements.
4. Establish retention periods: Determine backup retention periods based on recovery objectives and compliance mandates. Craft retention schedules, especially for data protection compliance, ensuring adherence to legal requirements for data purging as needed.
5. Define recovery procedures: Delineate clear procedures for restoring data following a loss. Specify responsibilities, access protocols, and determine the priority of data recovery, aligning with ISO 27001 audit standards.
6. Test backups regularly: Regularly test backups to verify their ability to be swiftly and accurately restored in the event of data loss. Ongoing testing helps identify and rectify issues, meeting ISO 27001 compliance and NIS2 cybersecurity standards.
7. Implement Map-Prioritize-Test framework: Integrate the Map-Prioritize-Test framework into your backup policy. Assess and analyze critical infrastructure across various environments, prioritize crucial data for business continuity, and regularly test the backup system for confidence in your dynamic disaster recovery plan.
8. Choosing a backup and disaster Recovery partner: After implementing the framework, you’re now ready to explore solutions tailored to your requirements. When selecting a vendor, adhere to industry best practices for data protection, as was covered in the vendor checklist above.
A well-structured backup policy is indispensable in any organization's IT strategy, serving as a safeguard against data loss or corruption. It provides assurance that critical data remains protected, retained, and recoverable in a timely manner. By adhering to these best practices, organizations can bolster their data resilience, uphold their commitment to data security, and navigate the complexities of compliance in the modern digital landscape.
Conclusion
Selecting the right backup vendor is a critical step in ensuring compliance with the NIS2 Directive. By following the checklist of best practices outlined in this article, businesses can mitigate risks, safeguard critical data, and maintain operational resilience in the face of cybersecurity threats. As the deadline for NIS2 compliance approaches, businesses must prioritize the selection of a backup vendor that meets their specific requirements and aligns with industry best practices.
A backup provider not only ensures compliance with regulatory requirements but also strengthens overall data protection efforts in today's digital landscape. Ultimately, selecting a backup vendor is more than a compliance checkbox; it's an investment in the long-term security and resilience of your organization's data infrastructure. By adhering to the recommendations provided here, businesses can mitigate risks, safeguard critical data, and navigate the evolving landscape of cybersecurity threats with resilience and confidence.
Want to keep learning? Check out our on-demand webinar "Prepare for NIS2: Business continuity is critical. Here's how to get it right" hosted by Søren Skibsted, Dr. Andreas Rebetzky, and myself, Mikkel Oxfeldt.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/nis2-key-to-compliance/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T02:48:38+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

NIS2 Directive: A key to compliance is business continuity
As the timeline to implementation of the NIS2 Directive shortens, businesses find themselves contemplating the necessary steps for implementing robust cyber security and IT compliance. The impending deadline of October 17, 2024, necessitates a strategic approach to meet the regulatory requirements outlined in NIS2.
This article provides actionable insights into how organizations can proactively prepare for NIS2 compliance, with a particular focus on backup management and disaster recovery as integral components for ensuring business continuity — a key focus of the new directive, specifically article 21.
Let’s jump into the essential steps businesses can take now to fortify their defenses against cyber threats by following a best practice framework.
If you’re looking for a general overview of all things NIS2, such as who does NIS2 apply to, read our blog, “What is the NIS2 Directive?”
What to do now: Get your business ready with best practices
Article 21 of the NIS2 Directive sets out clear cybersecurity risk-management measures “to protect network and information systems” that focus on ensuring business continuity through “backup management and disaster recovery.”
At the minimum, the best practice would be to back up vital data, create a strong disaster recovery plan, and then test these processes to know that they work as expected (meaning you have protected your business-critical data and it can be recovered). Luckily, to help elaborate on this practice, there’s a framework to follow to help guide you through the process: Map, prioritize, test.
Map-Prioritize-Test framework to ensure compliance
This framework is helpful for businesses to prepare for compliance with the expected NIS2 requirements by boosting cyber resiliency, most notably by maintaining business-critical functions through protecting key business infrastructure. Here’s more detail about what each leg of the framework entails:
1. Map critical systems
Assess and analyze critical infrastructure across on-premises, native cloud, and public cloud environments. Identify and prioritize crucial data, ensuring business continuity. Don't overlook SaaS applications like Entra ID; safeguarding identity and credential data is vital.
Neglecting identity and access data can impact business continuity even if other data is fully restored. Microsoft recognizes identity systems as more critical than human life support systems due to how important this data is for businesses: Read what Microsoft has to say about the importance of backing up Entra ID (formerly Azure AD).
2. Prioritize: What is critical to maintain access to?
Understanding the nature of your data is key to strengthening your organization's data resilience. As you consider the types of data you handle, such as SaaS data from Microsoft 365 (M365) or Entra ID, it becomes evident that not all data holds equal importance. This realization forms the basis for strategic prioritization, a critical step in preparing for NIS2 compliance.
Whether safeguarding CEO emails, logistics data, customer information, intelligence dashboards, or proprietary code, identifying the priority for recovery establishes a strategic foundation. This speeds up recovery time and minimizes downtime, ensuring that your business continuity efforts are precisely aligned with the specific datasets crucial for sustaining your operations.  
 
By determining what needs to be recovered first, you ensure that your business continuity efforts are targeted and aligned with the specific data sets crucial for sustaining your operations. This strategic prioritization not only optimizes your backup plan but also enhances your preparedness for compliance with the NIS2 Directive.
3. Test that your backup works
This critical phase of the framework involves validating the effectiveness of your backup and disaster recovery processes. Testing is a key element of continuity, because with regular testing, your business ensures that data recovery is possible in the event of a real crisis — this is best practice data security and compliance in line with the NIS2 framework.
Ensuring the effectiveness of your backup and disaster recovery processes is crucial for maintaining data integrity and business continuity. The following guidelines outline key steps in the testing phase, aimed at validating your organization's readiness to swiftly recover critical data in diverse scenarios.
From prompt validation of restoration capability to involving relevant stakeholders, this comprehensive testing phase guideline ensures confidence in your disaster recovery plan and ongoing resilience against potential threats:
- Validate restoration capability promptly: 
 Promptly validate that your backup systems can efficiently restore critical data without compromising integrity.
- Determine acceptable downtime: 
 Establish the maximum allowable time for data recovery, aligning with recovery time objectives set during prioritization.
- Regularly test backups for confidence: 
 Frequently test your backups to instill confidence in your disaster recovery plan and promptly address any identified issues.
- Consider different scenarios: 
 Simulate diverse scenarios, testing the recovery of individual files, entire databases, and complete systems to identify weaknesses.
- Document and analyze results: 
 After each testing session, document and analyze the time, accuracy, and challenges encountered to gain insights for improvement.
- Involve relevant stakeholders: 
 Collaborate with IT teams, data custodians, and business continuity managers to ensure comprehensive testing aligns with broader goals.
- Update and improve: 
 Continuously update recovery plans based on testing insights, addressing weaknesses, refining procedures, and adapting to evolving threats.
As organizations diligently adhere to the rigorous testing guidelines outlined above, they pave the way for a robust IT compliance policy essential for NIS2 readiness. The elements of backup management and disaster recovery, as emphasized by Article 21 of NIS2, not only acknowledge its far-reaching impact but also serve as proactive measures against evolving cyber threats.
Keepit as an established expert in EU compliance
Keepit, being a European company based in Denmark, understands the intricacies of EU regulations and their profound impact as we’re also subject to them ourselves. We operate without any sub-processors and maintain our own independent cloud operations within the EU, utilizing data centers in Denmark, Germany, and the UK. With a commitment to excellence in compliance, Keepit holds end-to-end ISO 27001 certification and is audited in accordance with ISAE 3402 type 2.
To guide your company through the complexities of legislative directives such as NIS2, NIS, and GDPR, we invite you to explore a demonstration of how Keepit can assist in ensuring comprehensive compliance.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/openai-hugging-face/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-07-31T16:14:02+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-08-02

============================================================

When a rogue AI agent reaches production, what can you trust?
In its July 21 disclosure, OpenAI described what it called an unprecedented security incident.
During an internal evaluation of advanced cyber capabilities, OpenAI models operating without the usual production cyber safeguards found a way out of a constrained testing environment. According to OpenAI, the models exploited a zero-day vulnerability in a package registry proxy, escalated privileges, obtained internet access, and then chained additional vulnerabilities and stolen credentials to reach Hugging Face's production infrastructure. Their narrow objective was to retrieve answers to a benchmark directly from a Hugging Face production database.
For its part, Hugging Face said the incident resulted in unauthorized access to a limited set of internal datasets and several service credentials. Its investigation was still assessing whether any partner or customer data had been affected. Importantly, Hugging Face reported no evidence that public models, datasets, or Spaces had been tampered with, and said its published packages and container images had been verified as clean.
That qualification matters. This shouldn't be turned into a claim that an AI system destroyed or corrupted Hugging Face's public data. It is, however, a striking demonstration of something every organization deploying AI should now consider: What happens when an AI system moves beyond the boundaries designed to contain it?
Once something gets through, the next hard question is whether you still have a source of truth it couldn’t alter.
Prevention remains essential — but it can't be the entire strategy
The immediate lessons here are about prevention and detection: stronger isolation, access controls, monitoring, credential management, safeguards around AI evaluations, and a source of truth. As we wrote recently in AI is moving cyber risk to machine speed, recovery is not a firewall, and backup shouldn't be sold as a magical shield against zero-days, but that article also made a point that matters even more after this incident: Prevention becomes a thinner shield the moment AI compresses the time between finding a weakness and exploiting it.
Prevention only governs the way in. It says nothing about what you're left with once something gets through. And that's the real lesson of this incident: Organizations need a source of truth outside the production applications they don’t fully control. Keepit preserves that source of truth through an independent, immutable backup of SaaS application data. When production data can no longer be trusted or accessed — because of AI or any other reason — that independent history gives the business a known-good state from which it can recover, move forward, and support its AI deployments with data it can trust.
Production can't be your only source of truth
Organizations increasingly depend on production SaaS applications to run communications, identity, customer relationships, finance, development, and other critical operations.
But they don't fully control the infrastructure behind those applications. Nor can they assume that every user, administrator, integration, automated process, or AI agent interacting with production will always behave as intended. This is the crux of it: organizations need a source of truth outside the production SaaS applications they don't fully control.
Once a production environment has been compromised, the problem isn't limited to whether data has been deleted. Organizations also have to establish whether data was changed, whether permissions or configurations were altered, whether credentials were exposed, whether the current state of the system can still be trusted, what the last known-good state looked like, and whether potentially compromised data is now being supplied to other applications, automations, or AI systems.
Answering any of those questions requires something the live environment alone can't always provide after an incident: an independent record of what the data looked like before the event. Keepit provides that through an independent, immutable backup of an organization's SaaS data — and the distinction between those two words matters.
Independence means the backup copy exists outside the source SaaS environment and its immediate failure domain. It isn't simply another copy controlled through the same production system. Immutability means the protected copy can't be silently changed, overwritten, or deleted — even if production credentials, administrator accounts, or automated processes are compromised. Together, they preserve the reference point that lets an organization recover, move forward, and feed trusted data back into its AI deployments when production can no longer be trusted.
AI changes the speed and scale — not the need for recovery
This incident was unusual, but the underlying resilience problem is familiar. A threat actor can compromise credentials. Ransomware can encrypt or delete information. An administrator can make a destructive mistake. A SaaS provider can suffer an outage. An integration can overwrite records. An AI agent can misinterpret its objective or operate beyond its intended permissions.
The causes differ, but the operational questions are the same: Can the organization identify a known-good state, can it prove that state hasn't been altered, and can it recover without depending entirely on the environment that's just been compromised?
AI raises the stakes because it can act autonomously, sustain complex activity over longer periods, and perform thousands of actions far faster than a human operator. OpenAI said the models in its evaluation chained several vulnerabilities across separate environments while pursuing a relatively narrow benchmark objective — a reminder that capable systems don't need malicious intent to create serious consequences. An objective, some access, and an unexpected path may be enough.
Three questions every organization should now ask
Where does our independent source of truth live? Is there a copy of critical SaaS data outside the production application and separate from the provider's infrastructure and control plane?
Can the same compromise reach our recovery data? Could a stolen production credential, compromised administrator, or misbehaving automation also change or delete the backup, or is it immutable?
Can we return to a known-good state — and verify it? Can we identify the correct point in time, recover the affected data precisely, and validate it before returning it to production or supplying it to an AI system?
These aren't questions for the backup team alone. They concern security, continuity, data governance, and the reliability of enterprise AI.
An independent truth when production can't be trusted
The lesson from this incident isn't that every AI agent will become an attacker, nor is it that backup would have prevented what happened. It's that the boundaries around AI systems can fail in ways their designers didn't anticipate — and when they do, production can no longer be treated unquestioningly as the complete and authoritative truth.
Which brings it back to where we started: Organizations need a source of truth outside the production SaaS applications they don't fully control, and Keepit provides that through an independent, immutable backup of their SaaS data. When production data can no longer be trusted or accessed — because of AI, an attacker, an outage, an error, or any other reason — that independent truth is what lets the business recover, move forward, and build its AI future on data it can trust.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/predictions-for-data-protection/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-01-23T12:19:07+01:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

From hype-check to hard truths â real protection, real risk, real demandÂ
Last year, Keepit predicted that 2025 would be the year SaaS data protection stops being optional and becomes a must-have as data volume increases, API strain grows, and practical AI solutions start to win over hype.
Now, as we look ahead to 2026, our view sharpens. The growing complexity across cloud, hybrid, compliance, and threat landscapes forces us to confront three truths: First, protecting cloud data must become non-negotiable; second, AI should be used deliberately to defend, not just to automate; and third, compliance and regulatory pressure are reshaping how and where data lives.
Here are four hard-edged predictions from Keepit’s Kim Larsen (CISO), Jakob Østergaard (CTO), Niels van Ingen (SVP Business Development and Strategy), and Jan Ursi (VP Global Channels) — each built on real trends and a clear roadmap, not marketing fluff.
AI offense evolves faster than defense — unless leaders demand transparency
Kim Larsen, Chief Information Security Officer
AI-driven attacks will become highly adaptive. By 2026, adversaries will use AI systems that map entire infrastructures in seconds, identify weak links deep in the supply chain, and shift tactics in real time to bypass defenses. Hybrid warfare will amplify this trend as hostile actors blend geopolitical intent with AI-enabled automation at scale.
Defenders will match this only if they adopt AI with intention and transparency. Security teams will use AI to understand exposure, strengthen detection, and model where risk concentrates. But success will depend on knowing how an AI system works, what data it relies on, and how decisions are made. CISOs will demand clarity, control, and accountability. The organizations that win will be those that use AI to enhance — not replace — human judgment.
Hybrid is back — and so is the race for skills
Jakob Østergaard, Chief Technology Officer
Hybrid environments will grow faster than anyone expected. After years of cloud-first narratives, companies are re-evaluating what belongs where. Political instability, rising sovereignty requirements, and cost pressures are pushing critical workloads back on-premises. Servers, storage systems, and licensed software are seeing a resurgence because organizations want balance, not absolutism.
This shift exposes the growing skills gap. Demand for deep technical expertise in networking, Linux, and systems engineering is accelerating while talent inflow is shrinking. By 2026, this shortage will influence everything from innovation speed to resilience planning.
Meanwhile, quantum and AI will face a public reckoning. The promise of crypto-breaking quantum machines and near-term AGI will give way to more realistic timelines. Investments will continue, but the narrative will mature as enterprises look for practical, defensible value rather than speculative breakthroughs.
AI stays practical in 2026, while modernization remains the real priority
Niels van Ingen, SVP Business Development and Strategy
AI adoption in 2026 will feel familiar. Most enterprises will continue using agentic AI to automate repeatable tasks and augment existing processes, not reinvent them. Only one in 5 organizations report getting meaningful value from their AI tools at the current time with key adoptions challenges being cost and lack of control mechanisms in context of the desired outcomes. Autonomous business intelligence will remain niche because the foundations, including infrastructure, required are simply not ready: Data quality, governance maturity, and organizational skills still lag far behind the ambition.
Modernization efforts will remain the primary focus. Companies will keep working through the practical realities and motions to replace platforms like VMware and Citrix, while using SaaS to accelerate outcomes where it makes sense. At the same time, compliance and regulatory pressure will intensify. Leaders will need a clear understanding of sovereignty requirements, new operating models, and the talent divide between “old way” and “new way” practitioners.
In 2026, CIOs will be planning for what IT must look like in 2030. The problems they solve today will not be the ones they face next, and there is a lot of pressure on the IT suite to ensure companies are ready and competitive as the AI transformation gains momentum.
Compliance goes default: NIS2 and DORA will reshape every SaaS RFP
Jan Ursi, VP Global Channels
By 2026, compliance expectations will become embedded in nearly every SaaS data protection RFP. Requirements tied to NIS2 and DORA will shift from “requested” to “assumed,” especially in finance, energy, healthcare, and the public sector. Organizations will insist on local digital sovereignty: data stored in-region, zero sub-processors, and guaranteed access even if the original SaaS platform is unavailable.
Because many companies are still in the early stages of meeting these regulations, demand will rise sharply as deadlines tighten. Local partners will play an essential role. They understand national sovereignty rules, infrastructure constraints, and the operational realities of regulated industries. As a result, the channel will become a core enabler of compliant SaaS adoption, not an afterthought.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/predictions-for-saas-data-protection/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-02-03T09:09:24+01:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

5 predictions for 2025: Data, APIs, and AI, oh my!
As we welcome a new year, let’s take a look ahead and anticipate the trends that will shape SaaS ecosystems in 2025. What challenges will businesses need to overcome? What opportunities will they seize to secure and manage their data?
To help shed some light on questions like these, Keepit’s Jakob Østergaard (CTO), Michael Amsinck (CPTO), and Kim Larsen (CISO) have shared five predictions for 2025 ranging from data protection and compliance to cloud infrastructure, AI innovation, and scalability challenges.
Prediction 1: Data protection — finally a non-negotiable priority
By Michael Amsinck, CPTO at Keepit
Data protection goes mainstream
In 2025, businesses will move beyond seeing SaaS data protection as optional and embrace it as a non-negotiable priority. The increasing frequency of cyberattacks and the devastating consequences of data breaches will make organizations take proactive steps to safeguard their digital assets, such as SaaS data, filling a critical need in shared responsibility models.
This means not just adopting backup solutions but ensuring they’re vendor-independent and truly resilient. Companies will demand solutions that not only secure their data but also guarantee accessibility under any circumstances. The market is ready for exponential growth, fueled by this heightened awareness and demand.
Prediction 2: Data sovereignty — know where your data lives
By Kim Larsen, CISO at Keepit
Data sovereignty takes center stage
As global regulatory landscapes evolve, businesses will prioritize knowing precisely where their data resides and under whose jurisdiction it falls. Customers, too, are becoming savvier, demanding transparency about how and where their data is managed.
By 2025, data sovereignty won’t just be a legal obligation — it will be a strategic advantage. Smart businesses will give their data a clear “address,” ensuring compliance while boosting customer trust. This isn’t about borders — it’s about accountability and control.
Prediction 3: Cloud services — supply chain under the microscope
By Jakob Østergaard, CTO at Keepit
Trust, but verify.
The geopolitical turbulence of recent years has exposed vulnerabilities in supply chains, including digital services. By 2025, organizations will scrutinize their cloud service providers with the same rigor they apply to physical supply chains.
Compliance, vendor relationships, and security protocols will come under the microscope. While integration and collaboration are essential, the days of blind trust are over. Businesses will learn to balance innovation with caution — understanding that while partnerships are key, not all vendors are allies.
Prediction 4: AI — the year of truth
By Jakob Østergaard, CTO at Keepit
AI hits reality check
2025 will mark the end of AI hype cycles. Unsustainable projects will collapse, and only truly functional, value-adding solutions will remain. Businesses will embrace AI for practical purposes: analyzing large datasets, identifying patterns, and enhancing decision-making.
The market will mature, with clear winners emerging as the dust settles. Much like past technological fads, the glamour will fade, leaving behind only what works. Companies that harness AI wisely — focusing on utility rather than novelty — will reap the rewards.
Prediction 5: Scalability — APIs as the breaking point
By Jakob Østergaard, CTO at Keepit
APIs must grow up.
APIs are the backbone of modern SaaS ecosystems, but by 2025, their limitations will become a critical bottleneck. Throttling, slow responses, and intermittent failures are stalling progress, undermining the promise of seamless integrations. For the digital economy to thrive, APIs must evolve to handle higher volumes and deliver consistently.
Engineering robust, scalable solutions isn’t glamorous, but it’s essential. The message is clear: slow down to build better. In the long run, well-designed APIs will separate market leaders from the also-rans.
Conclusion
The predictions for 2025 reflect a shared focus on SaaS resilience, accountability, recovery, and adaptability. Businesses must prioritize intelligent and robust systems that address data protection, transparency, and technological evolution to navigate the challenges ahead.
By embracing these shifts proactively, organizations can transform uncertainty into opportunity, ensuring they remain competitive and secure. After all, recovery can only happen if you have a backup proactively in place.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/prepare-for-surge-in-ransomware/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:20:10+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

âWhen it comes to ransomware attacks, itâs a matter of when, not if.â
Ransomware attacks are on the rise — in the first half of 2021, the average amount paid by organizations to perpetrators of was $570,000, an increase of 171% over the previous year. (1)
Last year also saw a 93% increase in the overall number of ransomware attacks (2) – a trend that is only likely to continue. While such attacks were once limited to outlandish movie plots, they’ve become an all-too-real problem for organizations of all sizes. In fact, when it comes to ransomware attacks, it’s more likely to be a question of when, not if.
Our concern at Keepit is that the regularity of ransomware attacks may lead to them eventually being dismissed as just a cost of doing business. But by choosing to pay the ransoms demanded, companies are powering a vicious cycle where the proceeds fuel increased cybercrime. (And paying a ransom does not guarantee getting your data back, as documented in the report "The Long Road Ahead to Ransomware Preparedness" from ESG)
It’s vital for the sake of commerce – and for society – that companies, governments, and law enforcement agencies come together to find long-term solutions to ransomware attacks.
In the short-term, we encourage companies to invest in a third-party backup and recovery service to minimize the threat posed by encrypted malware. The more secure your data is—and the quicker you’re able to recover it—the less worried you need to be about ransomware attacks.
At best, an attack won’t affect business continuity – it'll just be a nuisance rather than a crisis. If you know your data is safe, you don’t have to pay the bad guys’ ransom. Problem solved.
The disruptive power of ransomware attacks in 2023
An increasingly common threat, ransomware attacks are forecast to cost victims around $265 billion annually by 2031. (3) With conventional data recovery times often taking weeks or even months, the disruption to companies can be catastrophic in terms of financial costs to your business. But the damage goes beyond the bottom line. Additional impacts of ransomware attacks in 2023 are likely to include:
- Intellectual property cost – temporary or permanent loss of sensitive or proprietary information can be enormously damaging.
- Business continuity – disruption is frustrating and costly as companies struggle to restore data and operations
- Reputational cost – a ransomware attack can damage customer perception of the company and impact digital trust.
Why Keepit is the answer
Keepit backs up to an independent cloud, separate from your SaaS vendor’s environment, which means your data can be accessed completely independent from SaaS application availability. True backup—immutable and tamperproof on a separate logical infrastructure — is your answer to ransomware attacks.
For more details about Keepit's dedicated SaaS data protection, read about our security on our website
References
1. Research from Palo Alto suggests the average ransom in the first half of 2021 is $570,000 USD, an increase of 171% over the year prior; see Average Ransomware Payment Hits $570,000 in H1 2021 [Dark Reading]
2. Research from Check Point reports that ransomware incidents increased 93% year over year; see Ransomware attacks increase dramatically during 2021 [Computer Weekly]

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/protecting-saas-data-confidently/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T02:52:18+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Are you confident in your SaaS data protection?
Here’s why you might want to double check
How confident are you that your organization’s critical SaaS data is fully protected? If you’re not entirely sure, you’re not alone. A recent survey by Gatepoint Research of executive- and director-level respondents revealed that only 28% of IT and security executives feel fully confident in their current SaaS data protection and resilience measures. With SaaS applications like Microsoft 365 and Salesforce now essential to business operations across industries, ensuring SaaS data backup and recovery is crucial — and it’s becoming more challenging.
In a recent webinar, I talked about what these survey findings show about the state of SaaS data protection today — and why businesses need to rethink their approach to keeping their SaaS data secure. This article highlights the biggest takeaways from that conversation to help guide you on what your SaaS backup strategy should cover.
The shared responsibility model: Who’s really responsible for SaaS data protection?
When businesses move data to the cloud, many assume that providers like Microsoft, Google, or Salesforce have them covered. It’s a reasonable expectation — after all, if they’re securing the infrastructure, shouldn’t they also be responsible for protecting the data?
In reality, SaaS providers all operate under a shared responsibility model: They protect the application, but the responsibility for complete data backup falls squarely on the customer. The SaaS provider generally promises not to lose all your data at once, but they don’t necessarily protect your critical business data from deletion, corruption, encryption, or loss. It’s up to you to have a backup plan in place for your cyber resilience. Without an independent backup and recovery solution in place, data can be lost, leading to operational disruptions, compliance issues, and reputational damage.
Misunderstanding the shared responsibility model can lead to disastrous consequences, and the complexities around SaaS data protection underscores one of the reasons why so many executives express low confidence in their SaaS data protection measures.
Confidence crisis: Why so many executives are concerned about their SaaS data
The survey results show that 31% of executives weren’t confident in their SaaS data protection measures. This low confidence stems from several factors, including:
- Compliance and regulatory pressures: Global compliance regulations, from GDPR to NIS2 and DORA, demand that organizations maintain control over their data and prove that it’s secure. This is challenging, as regulations are evolving faster than many companies can adapt, increasing pressure on data governance and compliance. For example, DORA mandates that businesses in the financial industry maintain backup environments segregated from production environments to reduce risk.
- Increased risks from external factors: The frequency and severity of cyberthreats, such as ransomware, only continues to grow. With the advent of ransomware as a service (RaaS), the number of threat actors only stands to increase.
- Data growth and scalability: As more companies adopt SaaS applications, the volume of data continues to grow exponentially, making traditional backup strategies insufficient and underscoring the need for scalable solutions.
- Complexities in SaaS data backup: Many organizations rely on built-in SaaS backup tools that may not offer the robustness needed to guarantee data integrity and protection from threats like ransomware or accidental deletion, such as data immutability and air gapping.
Key challenges organizations face with SaaS data protection
The survey also delved into some of the key challenges executives say they face. Some of these are related to the reasons they don’t feel confident, but I was interested to see a couple of unique challenges reflected in their answers:
- Increasing compliance demands: Regulations like GDPR, NIS2, and DORA are forcing organizations to implement rigorous data protection measures. These compliance requirements are constantly evolving, leaving companies racing to keep up.
- Rapid growth of data: As SaaS usage increases, so does the volume of data, creating scalability challenges for organizations. Traditional backup solutions often fall short when managing the vast amount of data in today’s SaaS environments.
- Managing multiple backup vendors: Many companies juggle multiple backup providers across different SaaS platforms. This fragmented approach can make it difficult to enforce consistent data protection policies, and it increases the risk of gaps in coverage. The average number of SaaS apps used by “workplaces in transition” is more than 120, according to BetterCloud.
These issues compound the challenges organizations face in securing their SaaS data, especially when operating without a clear strategy or dedicated backup vendor.
What’s true SaaS data backup and what should it include?
To overcome these challenges, organizations need reliable backup solutions that are purpose-built for SaaS data. In this case, “purpose-built” really means that they’re built on an independent cloud infrastructure that ensures your data is protected, accessible, and separated from the production environment of the SaaS provider. This approach provides the ultimate safety net, enabling you to recover and restore data independently of your SaaS provider’s infrastructure. It’s why I call such a system a true backup, not just another copy of the data.
True backup also means maintaining immutable copies — versions of your data that can’t be altered, even by the most sophisticated threats. In recent years, ransomware attacks and malicious insiders have targeted cloud data, leading to data loss or corruption. A truly immutable backup, stored independently, can withstand these threats, ensuring that your data is always recoverable.
Of course, this isn’t a comprehensive list. If you’d like to read more about the top considerations for backup and recovery solutions, read our top 10 for RFP blog.
The ROI of backup and recovery
A dedicated SaaS data backup solution might seem like just another expense, but it brings considerable return on investment. Data loss or downtime can lead to significant financial impacts, both directly and indirectly. From potential fines for non-compliance to revenue loss due to service interruptions, the costs of not having a backup far outweigh the investment in a robust solution. You can also leverage cost avoidance in SaaS licensing fees with some backup providers. A comprehensive SaaS data backup strategy also protects your organization against reputational damage by ensuring uninterrupted service.
Practical steps to increase SaaS data protection confidence
Regular testing and clear data classification are crucial parts of any backup strategy. Here are a few takeaways for organizations looking to improve their SaaS data protection:
- Identify and classify your data: Identify what data is critical to your business and prioritize its protection. Knowing what information is most essential enables you to focus on securing the assets that would be most damaging to lose.
- Test and verify backup and recovery processes: Confidence in data protection comes from testing, so schedule regular recovery tests to ensure backups are complete and easily recoverable. Make sure multiple team members are trained to handle recovery to avoid dependence on a single individual.
- Evaluate your current backup solution: Check if your current backup solution meets modern standards of immutability, independence, and compliance. If your SaaS data is only partially covered or stored in the same environment as production data, it might be time to look for a more comprehensive solution.
Moving forward with a proactive approach to SaaS data protection
Ultimately, the goal is to be able to move from a state of “moderate confidence” to one of complete assurance. Data breaches and regulatory penalties are on the rise, and so investing in a robust, independent backup strategy is no longer optional. A true backup solution (one which stores backup data copies in a cloud independent from the production data) will not only help you meet compliance standards but will also provide the resilience and continuity your organization needs to thrive. Read more about creating a cybersecurity framework.
Another key takeaway is this: If your backup data is stored in the same place as your production data, it’s not really a backup. By investing in a purpose-built solution, you’re protecting data AND you’re strengthening your organization’s resilience by creating a safety net that keeps your business running smoothly, even in a crisis or SaaS provider outage. Learn more about air gapping.
In the end, confidence in your SaaS data protection isn’t just a nice-to-have; it's a competitive advantage. Take the steps today to make sure your data is secure, accessible, and always within reach.
Takeaway: Backup isn’t just a safety net; it’s a strategic investment
Ultimately, having a true backup strategy for SaaS applications is not just about preventing worst-case scenarios. It’s a proactive step that empowers your organization to maintain control over its data, ensure regulatory compliance, and prevent costly downtime. By implementing a reliable SaaS data backup solution, you’re investing in resilience and building confidence that your business can withstand unexpected events, from cyberattacks to accidental deletions.
The lesson is clear: Don’t wait for a crisis to rethink your data protection. Take action today to safeguard your SaaS data with a robust, purpose-built backup solution that keeps your organization’s data secure, compliant, and always within reach.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/ransomware-as-a-service/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:12:57+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Ransomware as a service: A growing cyberthreat for data protection
And 7 ways to mitigate the impact of RaaS
Ransomware has evolved from being a nuisance to a full-blown industry, with sophisticated networks of cybercriminals operating on a global scale. Among the various iterations of ransomware, one of the most concerning developments is the rise of ransomware as a service (RaaS). RaaS has emerged as a lucrative cybercrime business model, facilitating the proliferation of ransomware attacks across the globe through a much more extensive network of cybercriminals than ever before.
Let’s get into the intricacies of RaaS, exploring its workings, implications, cybersecurity challenges, and preventive measures.
First off, what is ransomware as a service?
Ransomware as a service, as the name suggests, is a model where cybercriminals develop and offer ransomware kits and services to other individuals or groups, allowing them to execute ransomware attacks with minimal technical expertise. Essentially, it's a turnkey solution for anyone looking to extort money through malicious means. With this cybercrime business model, one party creates ransomware software and then a second party pays to use said ransomware software to launch attacks.
According to IBM’s X-Force Threat Intelligence Index, ransomware ranked as the second most common type of cyberattack in 2022, with RaaS playing a significant role in its prevalence. Many experts believe the rise of RaaS has contributed to making ransomware so prevalent. The “2022 ThreatLabz State of Ransomware” report from Zscaler found that 73% of the most active ransomware variants were RaaS variants.
What makes RaaS different is that, unlike ransomware of the past, attackers don’t need to have the traditional high-level IT technical skills because they can rely on the technical skills of the RaaS developers. And because of this, criminals that were previously limited by their lack of specialized skills can now carry out sophisticated and successful ransomware attacks. Essentially, RaaS has democratized ransomware.
How ransomware as a service works
RaaS operates similarly to legitimate SaaS business models. Ransomware developers, known as RaaS operators, develop and maintain ransomware tools and infrastructure, packaging them into RaaS kits sold to other hackers, referred to as RaaS affiliates. These affiliates purchase the kits through various revenue models, including monthly subscriptions, affiliate programs, one-time license fees, and pure profit sharing and then use them to extort money from their victims.
Read a case about Conti leaks cybercrime commercialization, with a real example of a ransom note: Center for Internet Security.
The availability of RaaS platforms has led to a surge in ransomware attacks globally. As more cybercriminals gain access to these tools, the frequency and scale of attacks are expected to increase further.
An increasing number of new players were attracted by the potential for high profits and lower barriers to entry.
Impact of ransomware as a service on industries and organizations
Ransomware attacks have a widespread impact on basically all industries and organizations, causing disruption to critical services, loss of sensitive data, and financial damage. The healthcare sector has been heavily targeted, with ransom attacks on hospitals and medical facilities posing a threat to patient safety. Read about why healthcare organizations need Microsoft 365 backup for regulatory compliance and business continuity.
Legal implications of ransomware as a service
Businesses that fall victim to ransomware attacks may face legal consequences for failing to maintain adequate business continuity and data protection measures. Non-compliance with regulations such as NIS2 (Network and Information Systems Directive) and GDPR (General Data Protection Regulation) can result in significant fines, loss of reputation, and other penalties. These regulations require organizations to implement robust cybersecurity measures, including regular data backups, disaster recovery, and incident response plans, to protect sensitive information and ensure business continuity. Learn why air gapping is your best defense.
The economics of RaaS cyberattacks
Ransomware attacks can have severe economic repercussions, particularly for small businesses and organizations. The costs associated with ransom payments, data recovery, and downtime can be crippling, leading to financial losses and reputational damage.
In 2023, a new record was set for ransomware attack payments: A staggering $1.1 billion USD in payments for ransomware attacks was sent, according to Reuters. nearly doubling the total from 2022.
RaaS operators engage in competitive marketing strategies, often creating websites that mimic legitimate businesses. The global damages (total impact) from ransomware attacks were approximately $20 billion USD in 2020, and predictions are that ransomware will cost $265 billion USD annually by 2031 (Cybersecurity Ventures), highlighting the significant financial impact of RaaS. This forecast takes into consideration the impact of the increased market of cyberattacks due to accessibility and ease of use of RaaS, enabling threat actors to execute cyberattacks with minimal technical skills.
Extortion methods in ransomware attacks
Ransomware threat actors employ various techniques to extort money from victims. These include double extortion, multiple extortion, and pure extortion.
- Double extortion involves encrypting stolen data and then also threatening to release stolen data should the ransom not be paid, putting more pressure on the victim to pay.
- Multiple extortion combines data encryption with DDoS attacks against victim infrastructure.
- Pure extortion entails threatening to publish stolen data without encryption. (Read more about ransomware from the Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency’s #StopRansomware Guide.)
Main threat actors and notable ransomware as a service variants
Several well-known cybercriminal groups developing RaaS include Hive, DarkSide, PINCHY SPIDER, ALPHV BlackCat, and LockBit. These operators continually evolve their ransomware to maximize impact and profit. Notable incidents involving RaaS operators include Hive's targeting of Microsoft's Exchange Server customers and DarkSide's involvement in the Colonial Pipeline incident.
Hive garnered attention in April 2022 when they targeted Microsoft's Exchange Server customers. The US Department of Justice seized two servers belonging to Hive, disrupting their operations.
DarkSide primarily targeted Windows machines but has expanded to Linux systems. They gained notoriety in the Colonial Pipeline incident, where the organization paid nearly $5 million to a DarkSide affiliate. TechTarget explains the Colonial Pipeline incident in depth. REvil is known for receiving one of the largest ransoms on record: $11 million USD.
7 ways to mitigate the impact of RaaS attacks
Mitigating the impact of ransomware as a service (RaaS) attacks is crucial. While it may be challenging (or even impossible) to entirely prevent ransomware incidents, organizations can take proactive steps to minimize the effects and impact of RaaS, thereby ensuring business continuity and data compliance. The following seven steps outline strategies to mitigate the impact of RaaS attacks:
- Maintain rigorous patch management: Vigilantly applying security patches and updates is essential to mitigate known and unknown vulnerabilities. By promptly addressing vulnerabilities, organizations can reduce the likelihood of exploitation by threat actors seeking to deploy ransomware.
- Deploy robust endpoint protection: Implementing reliable and modern endpoint protection solutions is key to detecting and mitigating threats. These solutions should leverage advanced algorithms to provide continuous threat detection and mitigation, reducing the risk of ransomware infiltration.
- Frequent and air-gapped backups: Conducting regular and frequent backups of critical data is crucial for minimizing the impact of ransomware attacks. Storing multiple backups on separate devices in different physical locations ensures data availability and resilience in the event of an attack. Look for backup services that store backup data independent from production data.
- Test backups regularly: Regularly testing backups is vital to ensure their reliability and effectiveness in restoring data. By verifying the integrity of backups, organizations can minimize downtime and data loss in the event of a ransomware attack.
- Implement advanced anti-phishing measures: Deploying robust email security solutions with advanced threat detection capabilities helps mitigate the risk of ransomware attacks initiated through phishing emails. By blocking malicious emails before they reach end-users, organizations can reduce the likelihood of ransomware infiltration.
- Immutability by default: Deploying a solution with immutability baked into the design greatly enhances resilience against ransomware attacks. Immutable data storage ensures that once data is written, it cannot be altered or deleted, effectively preventing unauthorized modifications by ransomware. Immutable data storage allows organizations to safeguard critical data from encryption or tampering attempts by threat actors.
- Invest in user training and security culture: Educating users about the risks associated with ransomware attacks and fostering a culture of security awareness is critical. By training employees to recognize and report suspicious activities, organizations can strengthen their overall security posture and mitigate the impact of ransomware incidents.
By implementing these proactive measures, organizations can significantly mitigate the effects and impact of RaaS attacks, enhancing their resilience in the face of evolving cyberthreats.
Conclusion
Ransomware as a service poses a significant (and growing) threat to cybersecurity globally, contributing to the proliferation of ransomware attacks across various industries. Understanding the workings of RaaS, its implications, and the associated cybersecurity challenges is essential for organizations to effectively combat this evolving threat.
By implementing proactive measures, such as maintaining cybersecurity hygiene, deploying robust defense mechanisms like backup management, and fostering a culture of security awareness, organizations can significantly mitigate the impact of RaaS attacks. Additionally, investing in an immutable, air-gapped backup and recovery solution is paramount to ensure data resilience and continuity of operations in the event of a ransomware incident.
Interested in learning more about ransomware? Register for our webinar "From threat to defense: Cyber insurance woes as ransomware surges" and get the chance to engage with an expert panel of cybersecurity and IT leaders.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/responsible-ai-integration/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-03-19T08:25:41+01:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

AI that you control: Keepitâs approach to responsible AI integration
AI is moving fast. But in backup and recovery, speed can’t come at the cost of control and fidelity.
When you’re responding to an incident, validating coverage for an audit, or restoring after data loss, “mostly right” isn’t good enough. Backup is your last line of defense — the thing you rely on to roll back changes with confidence.
That’s why Keepit’s approach to AI is intentionally pragmatic: We use AI only where it can deliver real, measurable value, and set clear boundaries on its use everywhere else. Instead of using AI for the sake of a headline, we want to use AI to help people understand their data protection posture faster — without compromising security or governance.
Keepit is introducing the MCP integration toolbox, which is built around two explicit guardrails:
- What AI can see: AI tools can only see metadata (not the underlying customer content). They can’t read the contents of customer email, documents, CRM data, etc.
- What AI can do: AI tools can only produce read-only insights. They can’t take write actions like restoring or overwriting data or changing configurations.
These two guardrails are how we generate more value with AI while staying aligned with what customers actually want: meaningful insight with clear boundaries, control, and no compromise to security.
Why backup demands a different AI standard
In many AI narratives, the goal is automation: “Let the assistant do it for me.”
But backup is a high-stakes environment. Data protection is built on predictability, repeatability, trust, and confidence, especially in scenarios where teams are already operating under pressure: incident response, ransomware recovery, audits, or business continuity events.
So instead of starting by asking “what could we automate,” Keepit starts from a different question: What value can we deliver while keeping control intact?
The simplest way to think about the AI dilemma
If you want generative AI to be useful, it needs context. The real question isn’t if you can connect gen AI to business systems; it’s how you connect it.
Many AI implementations default to one of two extremes:
- Copy data somewhere else so a model can use it more easily.
- Give an assistant broad access and hope the safeguards hold.
For many organizations, neither option is acceptable, especially in environments where data governance, auditability, and operational risk matter.
Keepit’s approach is based on a different assumption: AI should query and summarize using approved interfaces, and it should do so in a way that keeps the customer in control of both access and outcomes.
Data, metadata, and backup metadata: the distinction that matters
When people talk about “AI and data,” it helps to separate the layers of information:
- Data: the actual thing you’re protecting — emails, files, records, messages.
- Metadata: information about that data in the source application (for example: hierarchy/location, ownership, timestamps, file type/size, sharing and permissions).
- Backup metadata: information about the protection of that data — what’s protected, when, and how reliably (for example: connector health, job history, snapshot ranges, restore points, audit log availability, anomaly signals).
This distinction matters because many organizations want AI-powered insight without opening the door to AI being “in their data.”
A lot of the questions admins and security teams need answered are operational and metadata-driven:
- Which connector is unhealthy?
- Are we missing coverage anywhere?
- What changed in the last 30 days?
- Where are anomalies clustering — and why?
Those questions are important — and they don’t require an AI system to inspect the underlying content to be useful.
The two guardrails: What AI can see and what AI can do
“Read-only” limits actions, but it doesn’t necessarily limit access. That’s why Keepit separates two scopes that often get blended together:
- What can the AI see (access scope)
- What can the AI do (action scope)
1) What Keepit’s MCP integration allows your LLM to see: metadata only
Metadata alone can unlock meaningful insight about posture, coverage, health, audit activity, and anomalies — without expanding access scope unnecessarily. Today, Keepit’s MCP integration toolbox is designed so the assistant works with metadata rather than the underlying customer content. Our MCP integration uses the same proven, secure APIs that our web-based admin center uses so your existing RBAC and authentication settings apply.
2) What Keepit’s MCP integration allows your LLM to do: read-only insights
AI-based tools offer huge potential for doing useful stuff — but also huge potential for taking unwanted, possibly destructive, actions. Keepit’s MCP integration is read-only by design: it can retrieve and explain signals, but it can’t perform write actions.
That means no “do this for me” operations such as restoring data, overwriting content, changing retention, or modifying configuration. The AI accelerates understanding — people remain in control of change.
Why MCP: Connecting AI without copying data into models you don’t control
Once the guardrails are defined, the next question is how to connect AI to what it’s allowed to see without creating a shadow data store.
Keepit’s approach uses Model Context Protocol (MCP), an open-source standard for connecting AI applications to external systems through approved tools and interfaces.
In practical terms, the flow looks like this:
- The AI client interprets a prompt.
- It selects one or more relevant MCP tools to get information needed to respond to the prompt.
- The Keepit MCP tool calls Keepit APIs within the allowed scope.
- The structured results of those API calls are returned for the assistant to process, summarize, and/or explain.
The advantage isn’t just convenience, it’s controlled context. You can expose only approved tools and data types, and you can audit what was requested and what was returned — instead of copying enterprise data into a model environment you don’t control. The AI client doesn’t connect directly to Keepit at any point.
The value today: Faster answers to real admin questions
The most immediate value of Keepit’s AI approach isn’t flashy automation, it’s speed and clarity for workflows administrators already have.
AI is especially useful when the problem is not “create something new,” but rather to generate insights through tasks like:
- retrieving a lot of information quickly
- summarizing it into a narrative
- spotting patterns humans miss
- reducing manual digging across screens and exports
With a metadata-centric, read-only integration, that value shows up in practical areas like:
Faster visibility into backup posture and connector health
Admins need quick, reliable answers about coverage and health: what’s protected, what isn’t, what’s failing, and what’s stale. AI can highlight where risk is accumulating and point you to the relevant connector health and job history signals.
Faster summarization of audit logs 
Audit logs are essential for governance and security, but they’re noisy. Even a defined time window can include thousands of events across users, workloads, and action types. AI can compress that into a usable narrative:
- What happened
- When it happened
- How it differs from baseline patterns
- What may require follow-up
Faster triage of anomaly signals 
When anomaly detection flags unusual activity, the next step is explanation: What changed? Is it normal? What’s the likely cause? AI can accelerate this triage layer — turning a flood of signals into something a human can act on faster.
None of this replaces expertise. It reduces the cost of retrieving and interpreting the signals experts already rely on.
The MCP integration toolbox is an extension, not a destination
One of the most important parts of this approach is staying realistic. MCP isn’t a magic wand that solves every problem. It’s an interface that can accelerate discovery and delivery of valuable workflows.
It can also be a proving ground. If a workflow is genuinely useful through MCP, that’s a strong signal it should eventually become a first-class feature in the platform — easier for more customers to use and easier to support.
The bottom line
Keepit uses AI to accelerate insight while preserving control. Today, we do that by making two guardrails explicit: The MCP integration can only view metadata, and it can only act via read-only insights — there aren’t any write actions.
And we use MCP to connect AI clients to approved tools in a standardized, auditable way, rather than copying enterprise data into models you don’t control. Because if you can’t roll it back, you don’t control it.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/restore-vs-recover/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-09-19T10:37:39+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Restore vs. recover: Are they the same thing in SaaS data protection?
Restore and recover are often used interchangeably, but they shouldn’t be. While they’re closely related (and for good reason), their meanings vary across industries and tech. For SaaS data protection, they can be used to describe different stages of getting your data — and your business — back to an operational state. Understanding the difference in a SaaS data context is useful to building effective backup, restoration, and disaster recovery strategies.
In this blog, we'll look into how we can consider the terms and help frame them with some context — and why planning for both restoration and recovery is essential for true resilience.
Let’s get into some definitions.
Restore: Bringing back data or systems
Data restoration is the act of retrieving data or systems from a backup and returning it to a previously known good state.
You restore when:
- A file has been accidentally deleted.
- A system becomes corrupted and needs to be rolled back.
- A virtual machine or database needs to be reinstated from a snapshot.
Restoration focuses on bringing back what was lost, damaged, or compromised — whether that's a single file or an entire application.
Restore = the process of putting data or systems back into place.
For a deeper technical definition, see TechTarget’s explanation of restore.
Recover: Bringing back business operations
Recovery is about achieving the state where systems, data, and operations are functional again — not just technically restored, but ready for use.
You have recovered when:
- Systems and services are running smoothly.
- Users have full access to the resources they need.
- Operations can resume without disruption.
Recovery often involves multiple steps — validation, reconfiguration, testing — to ensure that everything works as expected after a disruption.
Recover = reaching full operational readiness.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/saas-data-backup-and-disaster-recovery-planning/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-02-03T09:20:38+01:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

SaaS data backup and disaster recovery planning
Data is the lifeblood of connected, digital organizations. If data stops flowing or becomes unavailable, then anything that depends on it—including software-as-a-service (SaaS) applications—stops working, leading to consequences ranging from a short-term inconvenience to a full-blown existential crisis.
According to ESG, the most common reasons for data loss in SaaS applications are service outages, accidental deletion, and external malicious deletion such as ransomware attacks.
What is the top cause of data loss for the SaaS-based applications your organization uses? (Percent of respondents, N=344)
Key to managing business risk and minimizing operational disruption when disaster strikes is having robust, easily accessible data backups and a reliable, up-to-date disaster recovery plan.
While the cloud brings with it many benefits, its shared responsibility model has important implications for business continuity planning, backup programs, and disaster recovery planning.
As the saying goes “failing to plan is planning to fail,” so to help you avoid that fate, this post examines:
- The relationship between data backup and disaster recovery
- What “recovery” really means to different members of the cloud ecosystem, and why the differences matter
- How accessible backups enable business continuity even while the larger disaster recovery operation is underway
- Why it’s important to think outside the public cloud
The relationship between backup and disaster recovery
“Backup” and “disaster recovery” are closely related, but nevertheless distinct.
Backup is the process of storing copies of data, preserving it in a state that may be needed in the future. The 3-2-1 principle of backup mandates that you should have three copies of data (one primary and two backups), that the two copies are stored at two separate locations, and that one of the locations is offsite, separate from the primary cloud infrastructure.
Disaster recovery (DR) encompasses the planning and processes for reestablishing access to, and the functioning of, systems and resources after something has gone wrong. DR falls under the larger umbrella of business continuity planning, existing alongside Incident Response (IR) and contingency plans.
Like many business processes, disaster recovery plans are designed to meet measurable performance goals, with the most common being:
- Recovery Time Objective (RTO): the amount of time it takes to return to normal operations
- Recovery Point Objective (RPO): the amount of data that can be lost in a disaster, without unacceptable consequences
In practice, different organizations will have different—perhaps very different—RTOs and RPOs, reflecting the significant differences across industries and operating models.
In the digital world, a huge part of disaster recovery is restoring backup data into primary systems to enable their return to availability and operation. Restoration blurs the lines between backup and recovery, and can perhaps be thought of as the link between the two (although it’s traditionally considered part of backup).
Despite the long list of things that can go wrong and disrupt today’s organizations, only a slight majority of businesses have some form of continuity and disaster recovery plan the books. Compounding matters, these plans often take for granted that the crucial backup data upon which they depend will be available quickly, easily, and completely.
It’s worth noting that the chart above shows that 12% of respondents reported an inability to recover all the lost data with their current backup mechanism; plus, the same ESG research also revealed that 81% of Microsoft Office 365 users had to recover data, but only 15% were able to recover everything—underscoring the importance of reliable third-party backups for services like Azure Active Directory.
Therefore, to avoid unpleasant and costly surprises, it’s crucial that the disaster recovery plan be tested (i.e., not just reviewed!) regularly, to ensure data can be restored reliably.
But there’s more to it than that, because it turns out that the true meaning of “recovery” depends upon whom you ask.
What does “recovery” really mean for software-as-a-service?
It depends…
In the on-premises model, meeting an RTO is largely dependent upon backup and restoration of systems and associated customer data. Over time, organizations have addressed their continuity and recovery needs by investing in hardware and software solutions.
However, in the SaaS world’s shared responsibility model, things are quite different: “recovery” for you (i.e., the SaaS client/customer) has the same meaning described above; but for the SaaS vendor, “recovery” means making the infrastructure and application available—whether or not your data is there.
But that’s not all: backing up cloud SaaS data—the crucial stuff you need to make those cloud workloads useful—is your responsibility, not the vendor's.
From the report: “When Disaster Strikes. Recovery for SaaS apps”
Putting it all together, achieving DR objectives requires accounting for both:
- Cloud data availability (largely your responsibility), and
- Cloud application availability (e.g., M365), which is controlled by the application vendor.
More to the point, recovering from a disaster involving SaaS applications depends upon:
- How completely and quickly backup data can be accessed, regardless of the SaaS application’s state, and
- How completely and quickly backup data can be restored, once the application tenant is operational.
However, enabling recovery isn’t the only role played by data backups during a disaster—they’re also essential to maintaining some minimal level of business continuity while the larger recovery is underway.
Backups are about more than recovery
Full SaaS application restoration requires the tenant to be restored and repopulated with data, but the business world doesn’t stop just because you’re suffering from an outage.
Consider the experience of Carlsbad, a California-based company that was the victim of a retributive attack in which a former IT consultant sabotaged the organization’s O365 user accounts. The company’s Vice President of IT explained that:
The impact was felt inside and outside the company. Employees’ accounts were deleted – they could not access their email, their contacts lists, their meeting calendars, their documents, corporate directories, video and audio conferences, and Virtual Teams environment necessary for them to perform their jobs. Outside the company, customers, vendors, and consumers were unable to reach company employees (and the employees were unable to reach them). No one could inform these buyers what was going on or when the company would be operational again.
In a SaaS outage, easily accessible backups can manage risk and lessen disruption by allowing team members to access the essential information—e.g., contact lists, calendar entries, inventory levels, billing/financial information, data records—they need to perform basic operations.
And the only way to have a truly robust, reliable, and accessible backup is to avoid the public cloud altogether.
Thinking outside the public cloud: Keepit backup and recovery
For the majority of organizations—i.e., those lacking the specialized skill sets and extensive resources required—the most reliable and cost-effective way to ensure availability of SaaS data is to use a third-party data protection service.
However, backing up SaaS data within the same public cloud infrastructure that hosts their primary data fails to provide the needed assurances—since an event impacting that public cloud could render both the primary and backup data inaccessible, even with geographic distribution.
As we explain in detail in our eGuide, Leading SaaS Data Security, only an infrastructure completely independent from public cloud environments can provide true backup for SaaS data.
To help enterprises avoid disruption due to lost or inaccessible SaaS data, Keepit has architected a dedicated, vendor-neutral SaaS data backup solution that is resilient, secure, and easy to use—and we’d welcome the opportunity to show what Keepit can do for you.
After all, what good is a disaster recovery plan without reliable backup and efficient restoration?

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/saas-hidden-costs/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-02-03T09:32:18+01:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

The pitfalls of hidden costs in SaaS
And why predictable pricing matters
The convenience and many benefits of software-as-a-service (SaaS) solutions are clear, such as increased productivity, collaboration, and flexibility. However, there are a few pitfalls in their adoption that can really sour a buying experience. Perhaps topping this list is the frustration of having to buy software and figure out exactly what’s included — and what isn’t.
Since pricing is often a key factor that frustrates software buyers, let’s explore common SaaS pricing issues and how Keepit addresses them with a transparent buying process through predictable pricing.
The current reality of buying SaaS solutions
Buying SaaS solutions is often marketed as easy and straightforward, but in practice, it can be more complex than it initially seems, particularly when it comes to understanding the full cost and the features included in a package.
The reality is that for many SaaS solutions, figuring out their pricing seems to be as complex as the software itself (or maybe even more complicated). These pricing challenges can be a significant barrier for businesses trying to make informed decisions about the software they need and how to budget for it. There’s a number of variables making pricing difficult, such as hidden costs, scalability, and feature tiers which often exclude key features you need.
But why is it that complicated pricing is something those buying software deal with so often? Perhaps it’s partly because some companies, eager to capitalize on the growing demand for cloud-based solutions, offer pricing models that seem appealing at first look to get the buyer hooked on their service due to a low sticker price, only to later learn about the true cost of the solution.
However, once buyers adopt a solution, start using it, and then dig deeper, they often encounter hidden fees, unpredictable runaway costs (particularly relevant on services that bill based on data storage and transfer), or missing features from what was sold to them in the sales process and now doesn’t fulfill their needs without significant add-ons. What this amounts to is frustration, mistrust, and dissatisfaction.
And, once a buyer is already in the ecosystem and “hooked,” the sunk-cost fallacy may kick in — whereby a person becomes reluctant to change or replace a service because they have invested heavily in it, even when it’s clear that replacing it would be more beneficial than sticking with it.
Predictable pricing emerges as a welcomed respite to these issues by offering transparency and stability in an otherwise convoluted market, ensuring buyers get exactly what they need, expect, and pay for. But first, let’s look into some of the common issues of SaaS pricing and why it has become a prevalent problem.
Common challenges in SaaS pricing
Confusing offerings
One of the most significant challenges buyers face is deciphering what’s actually included in the software packages they purchase. SaaS providers often bundle features in ways that can be difficult to understand, leaving customers unsure of whether they’re getting the solution they truly need.
This confusion can lead to situations where buyers think they’re buying a comprehensive solution, only to discover later that essential features are either missing or require additional purchases. This not only wastes time and resources but also erodes trust between the buyer and the provider.
For many data protection solutions, they typically add rehydration fees for different tiers of data storage that lead to extra fees in a recovery scenario, as well as the time needed to rehydrate said data. This makes recoveries expensive and affects performance.
Hidden fees and extra costs
Hidden fees are another major pain point in SaaS pricing. Companies often present a base price that seems reasonable, only to tack on extra costs as customers start using the software. A common scenario involves adding users or accessing additional data storage (for gigabit-based storage models), which can suddenly and unpredictably inflate costs far beyond what was initially budgeted.
For example, rehydration fees — charges for accessing archived data — are often not clearly communicated upfront. Similarly, different tiers of data storage can lead to unexpected fees during recovery scenarios, where the need for quick data retrieval makes these costs unavoidable. These surprise expenses not only strain budgets but also impact the overall performance and reliability of the software.
Unpredictable pricing models
Consumption-based pricing models, like those used by AWS, introduce a different kind of challenge. While they offer flexibility, they also create significant uncertainty. Predicting consumption can be incredibly difficult, especially as business needs shift. This unpredictability often results in companies either overestimating their needs and overspending or underestimating and facing unexpected additional costs. The lack of a clear, fixed cost structure makes it hard for businesses to budget effectively, leading to frustration and possibly budget instability.
SaaS buying fatigue
Compounding the problem of dealing with hidden costs and unclear pricing practices in SaaS is the sheer number of applications organizations are utilizing in their portfolios. Peaking at an average of 130 SaaS apps in 2022, organizations are increasingly powered by SaaS tech stacks.
This rapid expansion not only complicates cost management but also exacerbates the issue of unpredictable pricing models, as organizations struggle to accurately forecast expenses and ensure they are getting the full value from each application within such a vast and diverse ecosystem. Buyers may end up asking themselves: Did I buy what fit my needs?
To help alleviate SaaS fatigue (Read: pricing frustrations), we make it easy and predictable to buy our service. Let’s look into how we do things differently at Keepit to make sure our service is always as simple as possible.
How Keepit stands out with predictable pricing
Straightforward seat-based pricing
Keepit recognizes the challenges prevalent in SaaS, and therefore we offer a straightforward solution with a simple, predictable seat-based pricing model. Unlike other SaaS providers that complicate pricing with various add-ons and hidden fees, Keepit’s model is simple and transparent: Customers pay based on the number of seats (users) they need, with all essential features included in that price. You pay one flat fee per user which includes everything.
This approach eliminates the guesswork and ensures that there are no surprises down the road and no consumption calculations to make that are common with data-based pricing schemes. There’s no need to calculate costs or approximate data usage; what you see is what you get.
Easy scaling
As businesses grow, their software needs evolve. Keepit makes scaling easy by allowing customers to add seats without worrying about additional hidden costs. There’s no need to estimate increased consumption, adjust for egress or ingress fees, or worry about restore costs.
This simplicity means businesses can focus on growth without being bogged down by complex pricing structures or unpleasantly surprised by budget-breaking hidden fees or data rehydration or transfer fees. When we sell X number of seats, it’s always this price.
Better value with all features “unlocked”
One of the key differentiators for Keepit is that all features are “unlocked” from the start. Customers don’t need to worry about missing out on critical functionalities: Keepit’s packages include unlimited data storage with no extra fees for storage or retention, unlimited free egress and ingress, unlimited point-in-time restores, and included data encryption — both in transit and at rest.
For example, in SaaS data backup and recovery, the difference between a restore with Keepit versus a restore with a competitor is that with Keepit, you get to skip the most time-consuming part — rehydrating data. All data protected with Keepit is stored as hot tier, with full redundancy through dual data centers, so there are never any transfer fees or rehydrating fees.
There’s also no added cost for unlimited retention and departed-user data is retained without additional charges. This comprehensive approach ensures that CISOs and CIOs have full control over their data without the burden of unexpected costs or compromises in data protection.
No buyer’s remorse
With Keepit’s clear and transparent pricing, customers can buy with confidence, knowing exactly what they’re getting. There’s no risk of buyer’s remorse because the pricing structure is straightforward and all-inclusive. Buyers receive the coverage and capabilities they need, without the fear of hidden fees or surprises. This transparency builds trust and ensures long-term satisfaction with our customers who know very well what’s out there in terms of pricing practices.
Conclusion: Scale confidently with predictable pricing
As businesses continue to expand their reliance on SaaS solutions, transparent and predictable pricing is not just a nice-to-have — it’s essential. Don’t let hidden costs and complicated pricing models drain your budget and trust. Discover how Keepit’s straightforward, all-inclusive pricing can provide the simplicity and confidence you need to scale your operations without fear of surprise fees.
By focusing on simplicity and transparency, Keepit helps businesses future proof their operations, allowing them to scale confidently without the fear of unexpected costs or the frustration of hidden fees, ultimately fostering a more positive and trustworthy software buying experience.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/salesforce-data-anonymization/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-01-21T15:18:48+01:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Salesforce data anonymization: Keep your sandboxes secure and usefulÂ
Imagine this: You refresh a Salesforce sandbox for testing, training, or development. The new environment works exactly like production, except it contains thousands of real customer names, emails, and financial details. That’s not just risky; it’s a compliance nightmare waiting to happen.
This is where Salesforce data anonymization comes in. Keepit for Salesforce gives you powerful, field-level controls to anonymize sensitive data automatically during a restore or sandbox seed. You get realistic, functional test data while keeping customer information private and secure.
â¯
What is data anonymization?
Data anonymization is the process of transforming sensitive values so that they can’t be tied back to a real person, while still preserving the format and structure you need for development and testing.
Unlike encryption or access restrictions, anonymization permanently replaces sensitive values. That means developers, contractors, or anyone in a sandbox can work freely with data that looks real but isn’t exposing actual customer information.
â¯With Keepit Salesforce anonymization options, you can:
- Protect sensitive fields during restores or sandbox seeding.
- Enable realistic testing with data that behaves like production.
- Meet compliance standards without slowing down development cycles.
Keepit for Salesforce: Available data anonymization options
Keepit supports multiple anonymization techniques to fit different needs. Each has its own strengths depending on your use case:
Data redaction (Nullify values): Removes values entirely, replacing them with null.
- Example: “John Doe” → null
- Best when: The field isn’t needed for testing or relationships (e.g., Social Security Numbers, sensitive notes).
- Benefit: Maximum privacy — the data is gone.
Hashing: Converts values into unique, irreversible strings.
- Example: “Jane Smith” → a93f5be321d9...
- Best when: You need consistency across related records (e.g., the same hashed email links a Contact to Cases and Opportunities).
- Benefit: Preserves uniqueness and referential integrity without exposing the original value.
Data shuffling: Randomly redistributes values across records in the same field.
- Example: Record 1: “Alice” + Record 2: “Bob” → Record 1: “Bob” + Record 2: “Alice”
- Best when: You need realistic, production-like data for testing and training (e.g., phone numbers, city names, product SKUs).
- Benefit: Keeps the dataset believable and usable while anonymizing the source.
(For very large jobs — over 1M records — shuffling is automatically disabled to maintain performance.)
Built to be flexible and safe
Keepit anonymization engine is designed to give you control while protecting data integrity:
- Non-eligible fields (like IDs and references) are automatically excluded.
- Default methods are pre-selected where appropriate.
- You can anonymize everything in one click, or fine-tune field by field.
This means you get strong privacy protections without worrying about breaking relationships or workflows.
Review before you restore
Before a restore or sandbox seed runs, you’ll see a summary of how many fields are set to be anonymized by each method (redaction, hashing, or shuffling). This gives admins a clear checkpoint to confirm that the right level of protection is being applied before continuing.
Best practices for using Salesforce data anonymization
1. Identify sensitive fields across standard and custom objects before seeding or restoring.
2. Match the right technique to the right field — redact for unnecessary sensitive data, hash where consistency matters, shuffle for realistic testing.
3. Apply anonymization consistently across all non-production environments.
4. Use the summary review step to double check settings — confirm the number of fields anonymized by each method matches your expectations before execution.
Secure and usable: The best of both worlds
With Salesforce anonymization built into restore workflows, you don’t have to choose between security and usability. Developers get realistic datasets, QA teams test with confidence, and compliance teams know sensitive information is protected at every step.
Ready to strengthen your Salesforce data privacy strategy? Learn how Keepit anonymization tools can help you seed sandboxes securely, restore with confidence, and protect sensitive data without slowing down innovation.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/scalable-systems/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T02:52:22+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Scalability: Building for the future by starting right today
From SaaS platforms supporting millions of users to APIs enabling seamless integrations, scalability is foundational for businesses to thrive in 2025 and beyond. Yet, achieving true scalability remains elusive for many organizations. The challenges lie not only in the tools we use but in the very architecture of the systems we build.
The scalability bottleneck: APIs under strain
APIs are the glue that binds modern digital ecosystems, enabling systems to communicate and work together. However, many APIs today face significant bottlenecks. For instance, with SaaS service APIs that vendors offer up for general use, we see everything from explicit throttling (e.g., "come back later" type responses) to slow responses or outright intermittent failures. These common issues limit their usefulness, and as businesses grow and integration demands increase, these bottlenecks become critical barriers.
For us to move forward with better and tighter integrations between systems, we need the APIs to scale to higher volume use. An API that can’t handle high volumes is effectively pointless. The value of an API lies in its reliability and capacity — usable not just occasionally or under ideal conditions but consistently and at scale. Without this, businesses are left with "just enough" functionality that falls short of real-world demands.
Is the root cause architectural complexity?
Probably. It’s difficult to know what the limiting factors are from the outside, but it appears that one of the biggest challenges to scalability is that some services — for one reason or another, which I’ll get into later — are built on an architecture that is difficult to scale to higher volume use. The truth is that many services today are built on architectures that were never designed to handle the scale they now face. (More on this in the next section.)
For example, a service dependent on a central database might experience diminishing returns when additional API front-end nodes are introduced. The database becomes a choke point — an architectural bottleneck that cannot be overcome by merely adding resources.
Elastic scaling promises easy solutions, but in reality, scaling a service often requires more than increasing hardware resources. It demands a foundational shift in how the system is designed. Retrofitting a system to scale can be akin to replacing the foundation of a house while living in it —technically possible but fraught with challenges and runaway costs.
The high cost of shortcuts
In the rush to bring products to market, startups often face immense pressure to deliver something they can showcase to stakeholders, investors, or potential customers. To meet these demands, it’s tempting to cobble together systems that "mostly fit." This approach allows them to quickly demonstrate the viability of their idea and gain early traction.
However, this expediency often comes at a significant long-term cost. The patchwork nature of such systems creates an underlying complexity that is difficult — and sometimes impossible — to scale effectively. Early success can mask these architectural flaws, and as the product gains market traction, securing business approval for a complete re-architecture becomes increasingly difficult. After all, why invest in fixing something that appears to be working?
The irony is that while these shortcuts may save time initially, they often result in delays, frustrations, and limitations in the long run. Organizations find themselves unable to "throw hardware at the problem," as the underlying complexity prevents effective scaling. Importantly for the fast-moving startups, investors are not blind to this either — technical due diligence is undertaken precisely to uncover if the proverbial castle is built on sand.
The way forward: Simplicity in architecture
To build scalable systems, simplicity must be the guiding principle. It must be built on the “simplest possible” architecture. As the saying goes, "All computers wait at the same speed." No amount of hardware can compensate for a poorly designed architecture. Simplicity not only reduces costs and increases reliability but also lays the groundwork for systems that can grow seamlessly with demand.
This requires a shift in industry mindset. Businesses and engineers alike must prioritize proper engineering and thoughtful architecture from the outset. While the benefits of this approach may not be immediately apparent, they will pay dividends over the lifecycle of the system.
A call to action: Invest in good design
The best way to solve scalability challenges is to avoid creating them in the first place. This begins in the architectural phase of development. Engineers must approach design with a critical eye, recognizing that complexity is the enemy of scalability. Businesses must be willing to invest in thoughtful engineering, even if it means slowing down initial development to build systems that will last.
"Slow down to go fast" may be a platitude, but it holds true when it comes to scalability. While easy to say, it requires hard decisions and deliberate effort to design scalable systems from the outset. Thoughtfully built systems not only handle current demands but will scale seamlessly as needs evolve.
Conclusion: Building for a scalable future
Scalability is not just a technical challenge — it’s a strategic imperative. Organizations that succeed in 2025 and beyond will be those that prioritize simplicity, invest in thoughtful architecture, and resist the temptation to cut corners. By addressing scalability challenges head-on, businesses can build systems that not only meet today’s needs but are ready to grow with the demands of tomorrow.
The future of scalability is in our hands: Let’s design it deliberately.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/scarcity-of-cybersecurity-experts/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:30:47+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Is a scarcity of security experts a growing global data risk?
And what you can do to protect your critical SaaS data
Cybersecurity is a critical concern for all organizations. The rapid growth of technology and the increasing sophistication of cyberthreats have made it essential to have experts in the field of cybersecurity to protect against the potential risks. Add on to this the ever-expanding compliance demands from legislation such as the NIS2 Directive and CCPA, it becomes even more challenging to navigate.
The demand for cybersecurity and IT job roles is increasing at a pace that outstrips companies' ability to recruit. Given that cybersecurity is a vital aspect of any enterprise that handles sensitive and confidential data, it is crucial to locate and retain specialized talent in this field, but how big is the problem?
A recent report by the World Economic Forum (WEF) has highlighted a significant shortage of security experts worldwide. They believe this shortage contributes to a growing list of global risks, including cyberattacks, data breaches, and other forms of cybercrime.
The importance of data protection and management
With the rise in cybersecurity threats, it is essential for businesses to prioritize data protection and management. This includes securing data, preventing data loss, and complying with regulations and standards. Data protection and management solutions also help businesses maintain their reputation and customer trust, as well as improve their operational efficiency.
According to WEF, the rapid pace of technological change has made it challenging for security experts to keep up with the latest developments, leading to this shortage of experienced professionals. WEF shares that this shortage of security experts is a major concern for organizations as it makes them vulnerable to a range of cyber threats. Cyber criminals are becoming increasingly sophisticated, and organizations need to be equipped with the necessary tools and expertise to protect themselves.
What is the cybercrime situation now?
The number of incidences and the costs associated with cybercrime are on a steep rise – WEF projects $10.5 trillion by 2025. Cybercrime is big business: The Conti ransomware group, according to Reuters, has targeted over 1,000 victims, garnering more than $150 million in the process. Their prolific success led to the U.S. offering a $15 million reward for information.
Cybergangs are organized and functioning like legitimate companies – the Wired’s article “The Workaday life of the World’s Most Dangerous Ransomware Gang” tells how the Conti ransomware gang has a CEO and even an HR department. These groups sure aren’t matching the image of the hacker in a mask, in a dark room, working on a laptop computer: They’re sophisticated, skilled, and clearly very successful by these dollar figures above.
In the face of this, companies are scrambling to protect themselves and their data, with more and more businesses understanding the risks and therefore are placing data security high on their agenda (and bolstering their security with bigger budgets). And they had better hurry: The threat environment is likely to only get worse. The World Economic Forum (WEF) Global Risks Report 2023 explores some of the most serious risks coming over the next two and 10 years.
What's the expected global risk from cybercrime and cyber insecurity?
Of the global risks expected to have the greatest impact over the next two and the next 10 years, “widespread cybercrime and cyber insecurity” comes in at number eight for both timespans.
In the second visual, “cybercrime and cyber insecurity” moves all the way up to the fourth position for businesses, highlighting the heightened importance of data protection and security to companies. It’s worth mentioning that in all of these, it’s the only result within the Technological category, and perhaps the one with the most agency: Companies taking action and intervening with a data protection plan can mitigate their exposure. (More on this below.)
Increased State Intervention: Is data backup now akin to compulsory auto insurance?
Compliance becomes an ever increasingly important part of data protection. The trend already appears to be solidified with the European Parliament recently putting forth legislation via the NIS2 Directive which adds on increased responsibility, heightened fines toward the company and C-suite of which the latter may be subject to suspensions for failures to comply. Read blog post about the NIS2 Directive.
“Risks from Cybersecurity Will Remain a Constant Concern”
And here we get to the crux of the issue: According to the WEF, “These problems are compounded by a scarcity of security experts.”: A challenging situation made more difficult. According to Cybersecurity Ventures, there’s a total of 3.5 million unfilled cybersecurity jobs.
How are companies expected to combat the increasing risk from cybercrimes and the increased demands from state and government while at the same time there are reports of an all-too-small pool of security candidates to hire from? One SaaS data protection provider effectively addresses these concerns by providing a service that follows data protection best practices.
How Keepit can help businesses compensate for the shortage of security experts
Keepit is a software-as-a-service company that provides dedicated data protection for companies relying on cloud SaaS data. By increasing cybersecurity and resiliency and increasing the impact of a company’s existing workforce (all with an impressive ROI: Read the blog post here), Keepit supports business growth into the future by ensuring compliance and data protection. TechTarget suggests enterprises should “support [their] existing talent” as a means of addressing the cybersecurity skills gap, specifically to “automate routine tasks.”
Keepit provides an intuitive interface and simplified processes, an easy-to-use data protection solution that can enable personnel with less cybersecurity expertise to manage and maintain the system effectively. This can save companies the cost and time of hiring and training specialized cybersecurity experts while increasing cybersecurity posture.
We have been able to split the responsibilities for data protection among different teams. This setup allows teams to work efficiently and independently.
Michael Bojko
System Engineer at Porsche Informatik
By providing an easy-to-use cloud SaaS data backup and data management solution across a suite of SaaS applications including Microsoft 365, Salesforce, Google Workspace (to name but a few), Keepit enables companies to continue into the future with confidence. Businesses can even get Azure AD data protection for free with the Identity Basic offering from Keepit. Read about backup and recovery for Azure Active Directory.
Compensate for the shortage of security experts by having an automated data protection and management system in place. This reduces the need for manual intervention, which can be time-consuming and requires specialized skills.
Our everyday is busy enough with keeping everything up and running. Keepit's solution does its job in the background so that we can focus on other tasks.
Ken Schirrmacher
Sr. Director of IT/Interim CIO at Park 'N Fly
Where should you start? Learn more about data management and protection
Keepit enables companies to have peace of mind, regardless of any new legislation or cybercrime events. Learn more about our service offerings.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/sec/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T02:24:09+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

What the new SEC cybersecurity rules mean for compliance
In 2023, several key compliance changes occurred when the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rolled out comprehensive cybersecurity guidelines, ushering in a new era of regulatory standards for managing cyber risks and reporting obligations.
These guidelines not only impact publicly traded companies but also extend their influence to encompass businesses throughout their supply chain. As organizations strive for compliance, understanding and implementing data protection best practices is paramount. Here's what you need to know to align with the SEC's cybersecurity guidelines and safeguard your business.
Understanding the SEC guidelines rules and regulations
The SEC's cybersecurity guidelines serve a dual purpose: Bolstering cybersecurity resilience and fortifying the security posture of organizations operating in the United States.
At a glance: Cyber resilience and security posture definitions and examples:
- Cyber resilience, roughly speaking, helps an organization to keep going even if it faces cyberattacks. The focus is on being ready for attacks and quickly getting back on track if one happens. Some examples of cyber resilience are having backup plans, quick recovery systems, and other ways to keep working during and after an attack.
- Security posture focuses on preventing cyberattacks from happening in the first place. The focus is on having strong defense, like locks on doors, to stop attackers from getting in. Some examples include using strong passwords, updating software regularly, immutable technology, and training employees to spot suspicious activity.
Key aspects include cyber-incident reporting requirements, outlining cybersecurity risk management programs, and disclosing governance information pertaining to cybersecurity. The overarching objective is to ensure that organizations maintain operational readiness to execute critical functions even in the face of disruptions, such as cyberattacks or emergencies.
SEC cybersecurity checklist: Key requirements and recommendations
As with many of the well-known compliance mandates (NIS2, GDPR, HIPAA), the key to being compliant with SEC mandates lies in ensuring business continuity achieved through following data protection best practices:
- Map critical systems: Begin by conducting a thorough risk analysis to identify critical processes and the underlying technology infrastructure supporting them. This entails assessing on-premises, native cloud, and public cloud environments to prioritize crucial data essential for business continuity. Don't overlook the significance of safeguarding identities and credentials, as neglecting identity and access data can have far-reaching consequences.
- Prioritize data protection: Determine which data assets are paramount for maintaining business operations. Whether it's CEO emails, logistics data, customer information, or intellectual property, prioritize the protection and recovery of critical data in case of an attack.
- Test disaster recovery plans: Regularly test the effectiveness of your disaster recovery plan and backup management to validate restoration capabilities promptly. Establish acceptable downtime thresholds and ensure that backups support dynamic recovery needs.
Choosing a backup management and disaster recovery partner
Selecting a reliable backup management and disaster recovery solution is crucial for achieving compliance with SEC guidelines. Consider the following factors when choosing a vendor:
- Security and compliance: Choose a vendor with robust security controls and proven compliance with regulatory requirements and one that is verified by key security certifications such as end-to-end ISO/IEC 27001.
- Recovery time: Prioritize solutions that enable granular recovery and versatile restore options to ensure swift return of critical data to minimize downtime.
- Data immutability and encryption: Ensure data protection measures such as native immutability and data encryption to safeguard against all cyber threats, ensuring data privacy compliance.
- Vendor independence: Choose a provider with an air-gapped infrastructure to prevent data loss and mitigate ransomware attacks via a physically and logically separate infrastructure.
Is the SEC only for US companies?
The SEC guidelines apply to all U.S.-listed companies. Regardless of size, organizations must focus on creating effective cyber risk management programs and robust business continuity plans.
Although the SEC primarily regulates securities markets in the United States — overseeing the activities of publicly traded companies, investment advisors, and other market participants — the reach of the SEC extends beyond U.S. borders in certain circumstances which underscores the importance of extending cybersecurity measures to third-party vendors specializing in IT compliance with global regulations beyond the SEC.
International reach of the SEC
While the SEC's primary jurisdiction lies within the United States, it has the authority to enforce U.S. securities laws against foreign entities and individuals under specific conditions. These conditions often involve cases where non-U.S. entities engage in activities that affect U.S. investors or the U.S. securities markets.
Regulating foreign companies
Foreign companies that list their securities on U.S. exchanges or engage in offerings within the United States are subject to SEC regulations. This includes compliance with reporting requirements, disclosure standards, and other regulatory obligations enforced by the SEC.
Extraterritorial enforcement
The SEC may also exercise extraterritorial jurisdiction to pursue enforcement actions against foreign entities involved in securities fraud, market manipulation, or other violations that impact U.S. investors or markets. This allows the SEC to investigate and prosecute wrongdoing occurring outside U.S. borders if it has a sufficient nexus to U.S. securities laws.
International cooperation
Recognizing the global nature of financial markets, the SEC collaborates with regulatory authorities in other countries to promote cross-border cooperation and information sharing. This includes participating in international enforcement efforts and coordinating regulatory oversight to address misconduct that transcends national boundaries.
While the SEC primarily regulates securities activities within the United States, its authority extends internationally in cases involving foreign companies, individuals, or activities that affect U.S. investors or markets. As such, the SEC plays a vital role in maintaining the integrity and transparency of global securities markets.
SEC cybersecurity rule effective date, reporting requirements, and forms
Navigating the compliance timeline for SEC cybersecurity rule requires a clear understanding of the specific deadlines tailored to different types of disclosures. Here's a breakdown of the key compliance dates and what they entail:
1. Initial disclosures for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2023:
- All registrants are mandated to provide cybersecurity disclosures commencing with annual reports for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2023.
- This disclosure requirement applies to both Form 10-K and Form 20-F submissions. 
 
2. Material cybersecurity incident disclosure:
- compliance for disclosing material cybersecurity incidents begins on December 18, 2023.
- Organizations are required to use Form 8-K and Form 6-K for reporting material cybersecurity incidents.
- Smaller reporting companies (SRCs) are granted an extended compliance period and must begin compliance by June 15, 2024, affording them an additional 180 days.
3. Structured data requirements:
- Starting from fiscal years ending on or after December 15, 2024, all registrants, including SRCs, must incorporate Inline XBRL tagging for cybersecurity disclosures in Form 10-K and Form 20-F.
- Similarly, for material cybersecurity incident disclosures in Form 8-K and Form 6-K, Inline XBRL tagging becomes mandatory by December 18, 2024. 
 
4. Foreign Private Issuers (FPIs) requirements:
- FPIs are obligated to disclose material cybersecurity incidents on Form 6-K.
- Additionally, FPIs must outline their cybersecurity risk management strategy and governance on Form 20-F.
Let us help you continue your compliance journey
If you're seeking guidance on complying with the SEC guidelines and fortifying your cyber resilience and cybersecurity posture, we're here to help with cloud data backup and compliance. Let's start a conversation and discuss the steps your business needs to take to navigate these new regulations effectively.
By proactively implementing these measures and partnering with trusted experts, businesses can not only achieve compliance with SEC guidelines, but also enhance their overall cybersecurity resilience today.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/security-certifications/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-01-23T12:21:14+01:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Proof over promises: Why security certifications matterÂ
Security certifications aren’t trophies. They’re independent proof that a vendor’s controls exist, are well designed, and, when applicable, operate effectively over time. For buyers, they cut noise and shorten due diligence.
For us at Keepit, they hardwire discipline across teams and keep our resilience practices honest. In regulated markets, stakeholders increasingly want evidence, not assurances, and that’s where certifications come in.
First, what do certifications actually represent?
The word certification is often used loosely to describe different kinds of third-party reports: Here’s what each means:
- Certification is awarded by an accredited body after auditing a management system against a recognized standard. For example, ISO/IEC 27001 is the standard; the British Standards Institution (BSI) is the certification body.
- Attestation/assurance report is issued by an independent auditor who evaluates controls against defined criteria. A Type 1 report assesses control design at a point in time, while a Type 2 report evaluates operating effectiveness over a period. System and Organization Controls 2 (SOC 2) and International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3402 are common examples.
- Industry assessment/label is a standardized information security assessment and result-sharing mechanism. It was developed in Europe for the automotive sector and is based on ISO/IEC 27001, with additional requirements for protecting customer data, intellectual property, and other sensitive information. An approved audit provider assesses the organization’s information security management system (ISMS) against the TISAX criteria.
We use “certified” for ISO/IEC 27001, “attestation/assurance report” for SOC 2 and ISAE 3402, and “assessment and label” when we talk about TISAX, even though many customers will colloquially refer to this as “TISAX certification.”
Why certifications matter for backup specifically
SaaS backup is the last line of defense; if it isn’t secure and available, recovery fails. Certifications and attestations validate disciplines that protect confidentiality, integrity, and availability (the CIA triad) and help risk, compliance, and security teams verify that business continuity and disaster recovery (BC/DR) practices are real, monitored, and improved. Read about balancing DR, backup, and security.
They also support regulatory journeys such as the European Union’s Network and Information Security Directive 2 (NIS2), the Digital Operational Resilience Act (DORA), and the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), as well as U.S. regimes like the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) by demonstrating maturity in incident response, testing, and continuity.
What Keepit holds today and what it proves
ISO/IEC 27001: Enterpriseâwide certification by the British Standards Institution (BSI)
Our ISO 27001 certification covers the entire organization — including services and technology, business continuity and operations, disaster recovery, sales, and legal — across all locations. The BSI audit references the standard’s 150âcontrol framework and emphasizes ongoing internal audits and continual improvement — helping customers streamline thirdâparty risk reviews. Learn more about Keepit’s ISO/IEC 27001 certification. 
ISAE 3402 Type II — annual assurance engagement
Keepit undergoes an annual ISAE 3402 Type II engagement. This is not a “certificate” in the strict sense; it’s an assurance report demonstrating that specified controls operated effectively throughout the reporting period. While some shorthand refers to this as “certified,” the precise term is Type II assurance. We use that language for accuracy and clarity. 
SOC 2 Type 1: Pointâinâtime attestation against American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Trust Services Criteria
Our SOC 2 Type 1 attestation (audited by Deloitte) confirms the design and implementation of 108 controls aligned to the AICPA Trust Services Criteria (and other relevant categories). Learn more about it. 
TISAX assessment and label — three-year validity, no major findings
Keepit completed a TISAX (Trusted Information Security Assessment Exchange) audit with excellent results. The TISAX assessment audited our information security management system (ISMS) across access controls, data protection with encryption and retention procedures, physical and personnel security, incident response, third-party/vendor management, and business continuity.
TISAX originated in the automotive sector and has become a standard expectation across much of the automotive supply chain in the DACH region (Germany, Austria, Switzerland) — not only for OEMs, but also for software, IT, and service providers working with automotive clients and partners. We also see a spillover effect into adjacent industries such as manufacturing, mobility, and other regulated services, where a TISAX label is increasingly used as a decision-making signal in supplier assessments.
Why security certifications matter to customers
- Faster, cleaner due diligence. Independent audits and certifications reduce questionnaire cycles and give procurement, security, and risk teams objective evidence to work with. They also provide us with a common language.
- Regulatory alignment you can trace. ISO/IEC 27001 and SOC/ISAE reporting map to resilienceâoriented requirements (for example, testing, continuity, access control), helping you show auditors how vendor controls support your obligations.
- Confidence in continuity — not just policy. Verification covers dayâtoâday practices like backup management, incident response, and recovery testing, not only policy documents. Business continuity, disaster recovery, incident management, and security operations aren’t just on paper; they’re inspected and improved.
- Manageable thirdâparty risk. Certifications shift the conversation from trust us to verified proof — critical for supplier assurance and boardâlevel oversight.
- Transparency when it counts. Clear scope statements, auditor names, reporting periods, and a straightforward way to request reports help you make decisions faster.
Read the top 10 considerations for a recovery solution RFP.
Why security certifications matter to Keepit
- Raises the operational bar. Formal audits force crossâteam discipline across Security Operations, Engineering, Quality Assurance, Legal, Internal IT, Delivery, and People functions. Read about CISO-approved backup.
- Enables enterprise buying. Many requests for proposals (RFPs) require ISO/IEC 27001 and request SOC/ISAE reports; being auditâready meets expectations up front and reduces friction and timeâtoâclose.
- Drives continuous improvement. ISO/IEC 27001’s managementâsystem model — internal audits, management reviews, corrective actions — keeps practices current and effective.
- Signals maturity and accountability. Periodâbased reporting (for example, SOC 2 Type 2 or ISAE 3402 Type II) demonstrates not just design, but control operation over time.
Certifications and regulatory alignment
Certifications don’t equal compliance or data resilience, but they support it by evidencing the controls, testing, and continuity measures regulators expect. They help connect productâlevel security to organizational outcomes — from incident reporting and resilience testing under NIS2 and DORA to recordkeeping and supervisory expectations under the SEC and FINRA. The result is less gapâmapping from scratch and more reuse of credible evidence during audits.
Beyond badges: Architecture still matters
Certifications are the baseline — resilience is delivered by design. At Keepit, that means emphasizing architectural choices that directly affect recovery outcomes:
- Independent, vendorâneutral cloud storage. Backups are stored on an air-gapped infrastructure separated from the primary SaaS platform to reduce correlated risk and align with bestâpractice “separation of duties” principles.
- Immutability by design. Writeâonce retention and controlled, audited changes protect backup integrity from ransomware and insider threats.
- Regional redundancy and availability. Activeâactive data center pairs and tested recovery processes minimize downtime and support sovereignty and recoveryâtime objectives.
- Operational simplicity for recovery. Clear restore paths, tested runbooks, and roleâbased access reduce errors when teams are under pressure.
These design decisions, combined with independent verification, make recovery predictable when it matters most.
Certifications as a promise kept
Independent audits and certifications reduce questionnaire cycles and give objective proof over marketing claims. They turn “trust us” into verifiable documentation. For customers, that means faster assessments and clearer regulatory mapping. For us, it’s a structure that keeps security, continuity, and recovery practices sharp — so when you need to restore, it works. To go deeper, visit our trust center.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/shared-responsibility-data-sovereignty/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-03-16T11:30:03+01:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Shared responsibility doesnât stop at backup: Data sovereignty is on you, too
Cloud adoption made a lot of things easier: faster rollout, less infrastructure to manage, and a cleaner path to scale. But it also introduced a subtle trap — one that shows up in audits, incident postmortems, and board discussions:
You can outsource operations, but you can’t outsource accountability.
That’s the heart of the shared responsibility model that every SaaS provider champions. SaaS providers secure and operate the service, but you remain responsible for your data, identities, configurations, and the business outcomes tied to them.
And that’s exactly why “having a backup” isn’t the finish line. Even if you back up your SaaS data, do you control where it’s stored, and are you confident about which laws apply to it? That’s where data sovereignty comes in.
Data sovereignty: If you own the risk, you need control
Data sovereignty, in a sense, is the shared responsibility model applied to jurisdiction and control. A provider may offer visibility or control of where and how data can be hosted, but the customer is accountable for understanding whether those offerings meet their sovereignty requirements, and then choosing architectures (including backup) that meet these demands.
In the simplest of terms, shared responsibility answers the “who,” and data sovereignty answers the “where.” Of course, that’s painting with a broad brush, so let’s go a bit into these.
The “who” (shared responsibility):
- Your SaaS provider is responsible for securing its service and maintaining availability of the data they hold for you.
- You’re responsible for your data, enabling access to the SaaS service, managing identity and configurations, and recoverability.
The “where” (data sovereignty):
- Where is your SaaS data stored and replicated?
- Where is your backup stored?
- Who ultimately controls the infrastructure that holds your data?
- Do the answers to these questions introduce new areas of risk?
- What jurisdictions can compel access — and how does that conflict with your local obligations?
This is the gap sovereignty helps close: You can be accountable for compliance and resilience outcomes (driven by your jurisdiction, customers, and risk appetite) without fully controlling the conditions required to meet them.
And importantly, the “where” doesn’t just mean the physical location of data. It includes the broader governance layer: legal jurisdiction, access pathways, dependency chains, and the practical ability to recover data on your terms.
What is data sovereignty?
At its simplest, sovereignty means autonomy: freedom from external control — meaning you are in control. What does that mean for data?
Digital sovereignty applies this concept to include an organization’s ability to maintain control over its digital infrastructure, such as data, operations, and technology, so it can decide where to store data and run workloads for reasons like performance, resilience, or regulatory alignment.
Data sovereignty is the data-specific part of digital sovereignty. It refers to which laws and regulations govern the storage and use of data — including how it can be used, who can access it, what obligations apply to it, and who decides these things.
This is where a common misconception creeps in: organizations often treat sovereignty as a “storage location” issue. Location matters, but data sovereignty is ultimately about control, jurisdiction, and enforceable obligations.
That’s why it helps to separate three related terms:

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/shared-responsibility/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-01-22T15:32:16+01:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Why the shared responsibility model is still critical today
And survey data highlighting a risky data protection gap
The shared responsibility model is not a relic of the early cloud era. It remains a bedrock principle across providers like Microsoft, AWS, Google, Salesforce, and Atlassian. The idea is simple:
- Cloud providers secure the infrastructure and application availability.
- Customers secure their data, identities, and configurations.
- Customers retain ownership of, and ultimate responsibility for, their business data
This division is as relevant today as ever — yet many organizations continue to misinterpret it. When data is lost to accidental deletion, unwanted modification, insider threats, or ransomware, SaaS vendors will not restore it for you. In fact, they probably aren’t able to restore it for you. Those things are the customer’s responsibility.
Read about Microsoft’s shared responsibility.
The numbers prove the point
You don’t have to just take my word for it. Two recent surveys underscore why this discussion remains urgent and why shared responsibility is still highly relevant today:
- 37% of organizations still rely solely on native SaaS data protection (Foundry, 2025). That means more than one in three businesses is trusting limited, provider-built capabilities to safeguard their business-critical data. Why is that risky? Native services often have short retention periods and incomplete coverage, and by design they lack independence from the production environment. Relying on them alone leaves organizations exposed when incidents occur.
- 58% of executives believe Microsoft backs up their SaaS data (Gatepoint survey). This shows a troubling perception gap. Executives are confident the vendor is covering them, but in reality, Microsoft and other SaaS providers explicitly state that SaaS data protection is the customer’s responsibility.
Together, these findings reveal a double risk:
- A considerable proportion of organizations remain inadequately protected in practice (more than one in three).
- Leadership is often not aware of the risk, which makes it less likely the issue will be addressed before a crisis. This makes bringing the case to leadership paramount.
The danger is not theoretical. Misplaced trust in native tools has led to data loss, regulatory violations, and costly downtime across industries. Regulatory frameworks like DORA, NIS2, and FINRA put ever-increasingly demanding requirements on companies and their cyber resilience, particularly stressing the need for true SaaS backup. Assuming SaaS vendors provide comprehensive backup is not just risky — it can put compliance at stake.
Shared fate: Another way of thinking
The shared responsibility model remains the foundation for understanding who protects what in the cloud. Some providers have introduced the idea of “shared fate” to help customers better grasp this relationship. The term underscores a simple but important point: Deploying cloud SaaS solutions and storing production data in the cloud doesn’t automatically solve your data protection challenges.
In fact, one could argue that the cloud has obscured some long-established data protection best practices, such as the 3-2-1 backup rule (you may have seen iterations such as 3-2-1-1-0). A key to the 3-2-1 principle is physically isolated (“air-gapped”) backup, where backup copies are stored in a separate cloud and physical location from the production data. Read more about the 3-2-1 rule.
Shared fate emphasizes that while SaaS providers deliver a secure and resilient platform, customers still carry responsibility for all the data and identities (think Identity and Access Management) they create in it. Customers create data, they own data, and are responsible for protecting that data.
With this framing, your organization’s outcomes are tied directly to the decisions you make: retention policies, backup practices, access controls, and recovery testing. In other words, you and your provider share a fate — but you never give up responsibility.
This phrasing doesn’t change the model, it reinforces it. Whether you call it shared responsibility or shared fate, the core message is the same: Protecting data in SaaS applications ultimately rests with you. You can read more about the concept here: Google Cloud’s shared responsibility and shared fate.
What organizations should do now
Closing the gap between perception and reality starts with understanding shared responsibility — and remembering, as shared fate suggests, that your outcomes are tied to your choices:
- Recognize your ownership role. Native tools are not sufficient; your SaaS provider is not responsible for your backup.
- Adopt immutable, segregated backup. Independent systems are essential for resilience against ransomware and to meet regulatory requirements like DORA or NIS2. But what does that mean? It’s not enough to use just any third-party backup provider: Air gapping is a key component of true backup — where backup copies are kept in a separate infrastructure from the production data.
- Test recoveries. Backup is only useful if recovery is fast, reliable, compliant, and complete.
- Involve leadership. Use data and real-world examples to get buy-in and address the perception gap among executives. Read about turning strategy into action.
Closing thought
Shared responsibility is a key concept woven deeply throughout the SaaS world, no matter the provider. Yet there is still widespread misunderstanding about what data “being in the cloud” really means. The survey data makes it clear: too many organizations dangerously assume they are protected when, in fact, they are not.
The only way to close this gap is with independent SaaS data backup — backup that is immutable, segregated, and always recoverable — and the responsibility for protecting data in SaaS applications ultimately rests with you.
Read our white paper, “Overlooked and under protected. How the SaaS data gap threatens resilience,” to learn more.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/soc-2-type-1-attestation/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-01-21T14:20:33+01:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Keepit achieves SOC 2 Type 1 attestationÂ
Keepit has achieved its SOC 2 Type 1 attestation — a significant milestone in our security and compliance roadmap and an important step toward full SOC 2 compliance. This attestation confirms that Keepit has designed and implemented internal controls that align with the Trust Services Criteria of security, availability, confidentiality, and privacy as defined by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA).
The Type 1 attestation was performed by Deloitte and covers the control environment at a specific point in time. The purpose is to assess whether an organization’s internal controls are suitably designed and implemented to meet established criteria. At Keepit, achieving this required extensive collaboration across teams and demonstrated the maturity of our internal practices and policies.
What the SOC 2 Type 1 attestation entails
SOC 2 is an independent attestation standard for service organizations. It focuses on non-financial reporting controls, particularly those relevant to how service providers manage and protect customer data. The Type 1 report specifically evaluates the design of controls at a fixed point in time — it does not assess operational effectiveness over a period, which is the scope of a Type 2 report.
For Keepit, the audit process involved demonstrating the presence and documentation of 108 distinct internal controls. These controls span several domains, including:
- Physical and environmental security — ensuring secure access to facilities and systems.
- Human resources security — including background checks, onboarding, offboarding, and ongoing training.
- Operations and network security — such as vulnerability management, patching, monitoring, and alerting.
- Development and testing processes — covering secure software development lifecycle practices.
- Privacy and data handling — defining how personal data is collected, processed, and stored in accordance with our published privacy policy.
To validate each control, Keepit provided the auditors with formal policies, documented procedures, configuration samples, and screenshots demonstrating technical implementation. These were supported by interviews across multiple teams, including Legal, Internal IT, Security Operations, Development, Delivery, Quality Assurance, and People and Culture.
The Privacy Trust Services Criteria was fully owned by our Legal team, while Information Security took responsibility for the remaining three: Security, Availability, and Confidentiality.
Examples of assessed controls
While the full list of 108 controls is proprietary, several examples highlight the breadth and complexity of what was evaluated:
- Access control policy — Keepit maintains a documented and regularly reviewed access control policy to ensure access is based on business and security requirements.
- Compliance monitoring — Management regularly reviews compliance with information processing policies and procedures to ensure alignment with defined security requirements.
- Secure development environments — Development and integration environments are protected and managed according to secure coding practices across the system development life cycle.
- Risk-based controls implementation — Controls are selected and applied based on the results of formal risk assessments or third-party reviews.
Each control was mapped to one or more Trust Services Criteria and assessed for design effectiveness — that is, whether the control, as implemented, could reasonably achieve its intended purpose.
Why SOC 2 matters
SOC 2 is widely recognized across industries, particularly in enterprise IT and regulated sectors. More of our customers and partners are asking about SOC 2 as part of their vendor due diligence processes. For them, this attestation provides assurance that Keepit has put structured, formal controls in place to protect their data.
This milestone complements our ISO/IEC 27001 certification and reinforces our broader commitment to security, transparency, and continuous improvement. It also provides a foundation for the next phase of compliance work — SOC 2 Type 2.
Looking ahead: toward SOC 2 Type 2
Achieving SOC 2 Type 1 is not the final goal, but a critical step forward. Keepit is already preparing for the SOC 2 Type 2 assessment, which evaluates how effectively controls operate over a period of time — typically six to twelve months.
While Type 1 looks at whether controls are designed and in place, Type 2 goes further by verifying that they are functioning consistently and effectively. The transition to Type 2 reflects both growing customer expectations and our internal standards for accountability and resilience.
We expect to undergo the Type 2 attestation within the next audit cycle and continue to invest in maturing our security and compliance capabilities.
Conclusion
The successful SOC 2 Type 1 attestation is the result of diligent work across Keepit. It signals to our customers and partners that we take data protection seriously and have established a strong baseline for meeting Trust Services Criteria. As we continue our journey toward Type 2 — and beyond — we remain committed to upholding rigorous security standards, minimizing risk, and ensuring business continuity.
Visit the Keepit Trust Center for more information about certifications, security and architecture.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/spotlight-monitor/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:41:09+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Monitoring functionality for data management and insights
Why you need data monitoring for cyber resilience
Knowing what’s happening with your backup data at all times is a vital piece of the data protection puzzle, because if you can’t see changes to your data, you’re at risk.
Understanding the ever-shifting landscape of cyberthreats, navigating increasing regulatory demands, and managing complex IT environments are the daily challenges faced by IT managers, CIOs, and CISOs. Having continuous visibility into your backup data is not just an advantage: it's a necessity. Which is why, according to a recent Enterprise Strategy Group (ESG) report, 77% of organizations rely on backup scanning.
Staying ahead requires more than just periodic check-ins. Our monitoring dashboard isn't just a tool; it's a vital part of your frontline defense in an era where malicious activities are ever evolving.
Continuous data monitoring serves as a proactive measure that ensures your business is not only compliant with increasing regulatory requirements, but also resilient in the face of complex IT environments where security blind spots may lurk. Beyond external threats, it's about mitigating insider risks and acknowledging that malicious deletions don't only occur from the outside.
Visible data makes a business resilient, and this is exactly why Keepit has security and data insights functionality built into our data protection platform. Our monitoring dashboard makes it simple and fast for you to boost your cyber resilience posture, because visible data makes a business resilient.
With Keepit's monitoring dashboard, you gain the ability to have full visibility into what’s happening with your data environments, so you’re always informed and in control. This way, you can avoid unpleasant surprises and prevent data loss.
Let’s take a look into the Keepit monitoring dashboard.
Product overview
SaaS data protection is a key concern for most businesses because staying compliant and operational means being resilient in the face of data loss. Insights into the health of your data are key for cyber readiness.
The Keepit platform monitoring dashboard gives you powerful insights with total simplicity. From the monitoring dashboard, you can:
- Spot trends and patterns
- Track changes over time
- Identify outliers and abnormal changes in data growth before they affect your business operations
- Remain data resilient no matter what
To “just” back up data isn’t enough in a security ecosystem. You need your data protection vendor to have the ability to assist in the detection of and recovery from data loss events, such as ransomware.
Let’s look into the key features of our monitoring dashboard.
Features and benefits
With the Keepit monitoring dashboard, you get one view into multiple workloads. Get an overview of snapshot growth and changes between snapshots, such as files added, files removed (deleted), files modified, and more — in an instant via one dashboard.
Let’s highlight three key benefits
1. One platform, multi-workload awareness:
With the Keepit platform, you get the convenience and power of one dashboard reporting on numerous applications and workloads. This means you’ll quickly get accurate insights into your entire dataset in one view, rather than having to monitor multiple monitors. One look and you get an up-to-date view of all your business-critical SaaS data.
- Use case: You’re a large enterprise leveraging many SaaS applications for increased productivity. With this increase also comes increased complexity. Consulting multiple monitors within these many workloads and applications is daunting, impractical, and time consuming. With the Keepit platform, you get one monitor across multiple workloads, such as Microsoft 365, Entra ID (formerly Azure AD), Salesforce, and Google.
2. Incremental forever approach:
We create snapshots from day 0, and we look for changes in data multiple times each day with our unique identifier architecture (hash-based Merkle Tree). This large history of snapshots provides a rich opportunity to analyze and monitor the data changes between snapshots. We will be applying this approach to identify changes in any single file or document in our upcoming model for anomaly detection.
- Use case for anomaly detection (coming soon): Let’s say that you have a file — perhaps an important budget spreadsheet — that was never modified since it was created two years ago, but now it's suddenly changed. When something unusual like this happens, you’ll have full visibility into that change via our monitoring dashboard.
3. Simplicity and easy-to-use platform:
Simplify the complexity of data protection monitoring with a centralized logging tool. Our monitoring dashboard creates a holistic view of cloud data usage and change/threat detection, which means enterprises, both big and small, can get their data where and when they need it.
- Use case: Your IT team is tasked with the challenge of navigating through multiple interfaces, monitoring various workloads, and ensuring the security of critical data spread across platforms. Your IT staff spends valuable time toggling between monitors trying to identify changes and address potential security blind spots. This not only consumes time but also increases the likelihood of oversight, leaving your organization vulnerable to evolving cyber threats. 
 
 With the Keepit dashboard, your IT team gains a significant efficiency boost from the simplicity of the solution. They can quickly spot trends, track changes, and identify changes across multiple workloads. This efficiency not only streamlines day-to-day operations, but also enhances productivity.
Availability
The monitoring dashboard is a dedicated tab within the Keepit solution as a key part of our effortless, secure, and reliable data protection platform. So, you don’t need to do anything extra to start benefiting from our next level data protection — it’s all included.
Conclusion
In the world of data protection, visibility into your data is non-negotiable. Keepit's monitoring dashboard provides a convenient, no-nonsense solution for IT managers, CIOs, and CISOs who understand the value of keeping a close eye on their data — all of their SaaS data across multiple workloads — in one simple dashboard.
Gain a sense of control and confidence in an era where the fear of ransomware looms large by knowing that every change in your data is under vigilant observation. It's the peace of mind that comes from being proactive rather than reactive. Confidence in data protection transforms into confidence in decision making, strategic planning, and ultimately, the company's resilience in the face of cyber threats.
Interested in learning more? Visit our use cases page, or if you’re ready to take the next step, book a demo to explore the functionalities and experience the impact Keepit can have on your data security. Be sure to stay tuned to learn about our upcoming data model for anomaly detection.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/strategies-for-cisos/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:12:56+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Whatâs keeping CISOs up at night?
Introduction
Cybersecurity is no longer a siloed concern relegated to IT departments; it’s a fundamental component of business strategy. Chief information security officers (CISOs) face mounting pressures to not only protect their organizations but also to integrate cybersecurity into the broader business framework.
This is the focus of our recent webinar, "The CISO balancing act: How to tackle rising cybersecurity pressures in 2024," where industry experts share insights and strategies. Read further for a summary highlighting the key takeaways.
Strategies for CISOs navigating cybersecurity challenges
As the digital landscape expands, so do the complexities of managing cybersecurity. We’re seeing a mix of longstanding challenges and new, emerging threats that are putting unprecedented pressure on security professionals worldwide.
Our on-demand webinar provides strategic and operational insights based on extensive research and interviews with over 30 top security professionals from organizations around the globe. Whether you're a CISO, a security analyst, or a business leader, these compiled insights will help you navigate the obstacles ahead.
Join Mark Renouf, former BBC journalist and contributor, as he engages with industry experts Tim Rhodes, managing director at Apprize360, and Kim Larsen, CISO at Keepit, to discuss key takeaways from the study, such as:
- Decisions to consider as you prepare for both known and unknown threats.
- Key components of a resilient security framework that adapts to both current needs and future technologies.
- How to identify solid best practices to embrace.
The importance of a data governance framework
One of the most pressing challenges identified in the webinar is the need for a robust data governance framework. This is highlighted as a top priority by nearly all the CISOs and IT leaders interviewed.
Key points:
- Customization and scalability: Organizations need data governance frameworks tailored to their specific needs, which can grow and evolve with them.
- Deployment challenges: Many leaders struggle with effectively deploying and maintaining these frameworks.
- Foundational role: Data governance is foundational to overall cybersecurity strategy, impacting compliance, risk management, and operational efficiency.
Data classification: The bedrock of data governance
Hand in hand with data governance is the need for an effective data classification strategy. This is emphasized as a critical step before any governance framework can be successfully implemented.
Key points:
- Foundation first: Proper data classification is seen as the cornerstone of an effective data governance framework.
- AI and automation: While AI and machine learning hold promise for automated data classification, there's caution about relying too heavily on these technologies without thorough vetting.
- Simplification: Effective data classification frameworks should avoid complexity, making them easy to understand and use across the organization.
Board involvement in cybersecurity
Another major theme is the crucial role of board involvement in cybersecurity strategy. Despite its importance, many organizations still lack adequate board engagement in this area.
Key points:
- Risk integration: Boards need to integrate cybersecurity risks into their overall risk management strategies.
- Education and engagement: CISOs often need to educate board members about cybersecurity threats and the importance of proactive strategies.
- Strategic role: Cybersecurity should be a regular item on board agendas, influencing broader business decisions.
Defensible security strategies
CISOs are increasingly focusing on creating defensible security strategies rooted in zero trust principles. This involves continuous threat modeling and analysis, ensuring that security measures can withstand scrutiny and adapt to evolving threats.
Key points:
- Lifecycle approach: Viewing cybersecurity through a lifecycle lens rather than isolated solutions.
- Zero trust: Implementing zero trust principles to create a more resilient security posture.
- Continuous improvement: Regularly updating and refining security strategies to address new threats.
Vendor partnerships: beyond products to solutions
Effective cybersecurity often depends on strong vendor partnerships. CISOs are looking for vendors who can provide not just products but comprehensive solutions and strategic advice.
Key points:
- Consultative partnerships: CISOs value vendors who act as partners, offering strategic guidance and support.
- Integration and collaboration: Vendors should work seamlessly with internal teams and other third-party solutions to provide cohesive security coverage.
- Service and support: High levels of service and support from vendors are crucial for maintaining effective security postures.
Addressing CISO experience and maturity
The webinar highlights the varying levels of experience and maturity among CISOs, which can significantly impact an organization's cybersecurity effectiveness.
Key points:
- Diverse backgrounds: CISOs come from various professional backgrounds, affecting their approach to cybersecurity.
- Rapid impact: With an average tenure of 24-36 months, especially in the U.S., CISOs need to make quick, impactful changes.
- Training and development: Continuous education and professional development are essential for CISOs to stay ahead of emerging threats.
Conclusion
As we navigate the complexities of cybersecurity in 2024, the role of the CISO is more critical than ever. Effective data governance, board involvement, strategic vendor partnerships, and continuous improvement in security strategies are vital. Organizations that prioritize these areas will be better equipped to handle the rising pressures and evolving threats in the cybersecurity landscape.
By integrating these insights into their operations, businesses can enhance their cybersecurity posture, ensuring not only protection but also resilience and strategic advantage in the digital age.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/sustainability/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:41:09+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Sustainability: More than green energy, tech stacks must be efficient
Keepit’s holistic approach to sustainability pushes beyond only using green energy options: it’s about maximized efficiencies from our purpose-built architecture perfected for protecting and storing SaaS application data in the fastest, most efficient way possible.
So, let’s look into how we consider sustainability in the data protection and backup industry, the design choices Keepit has made to be fast and efficient (like deduplication and incremental backup), as well as the challenges legacy systems face in regard to sustainability.
Introduction
What is sustainability in a context where energy consumption must happen? And by “must happen” I mean — in our very real example — for critical services like data protection and backup that’s required by law (think compliance with NIS2, HIPAA, GDPR) and crucial for businesses ensuring operations and continuity.
Keepit, the only vendor-independent cloud data protection specialist (think air gapping with a separate logical infrastructure, in line with the 321 backup rule), not only leads the way for greener solutions by way of substantially better efficiency, but also demonstrates that performance and profitability don’t have to take a backseat to environmental stewardship.
This article explores Keepit's comprehensive approach to sustainability, focusing on its commitment to minimizing resource consumption while delivering industry-leading data protection of essential services and critical infrastructure.
From efficient technology stack design to innovative data management practices, Keepit exemplifies how sustainability can be integrated into every aspect of operations, often leading to some beneficial “side effects” I’ll talk about below.
This article sheds light on the importance of responsible resource utilization in the tech industry and offers insights into practical strategies for achieving unmatched environmental sustainability and performance capabilities.
Let’s look into how we integrate sustainability considerations into our data protection and backup services operations.
Sustainability in data protection: Maximize performance and efficiency to minimize use
Delivering any service, including this one, will consume resources and there's just no way around that. So, what we try to do here at Keepit is to make as much positive impact with our customers as we can by not only delivering a great service (that they're often obligated by law to have) but delivering that same high level of service with the least negative impact for the world and future generations, in regards to energy use and energy origin.
Sustainability for us, as I see it anyway, means being responsible in our consumption of resources because there's absolutely no way around consuming resources. So, for us at Keepit, we built our technology stack from the ground up specifically for solving these exact problems that we're solving in the most efficient way possible.
And with efficiency here, I mean broadly, so it's in terms of how much physical equipment we need, how much space do we need to consume, how much power we consume, and how many people we need to run this business. In that light, you can say that a sustainable business is also going to be a more profitable business because minimizing resource consumption not only reduces environmental impact but also lowers operational costs, ultimately leading to increased profitability.
Let’s look into the keys of consumption and sustainability.
Sustainable resource consumption
To us at Keepit, there’s an emphasis on the understanding that every action leaves an impact, and because of this, we define sustainability as being responsible for resource consumption. This includes a commitment to minimizing the footprint left by the company's operations.
The company acknowledges that, given the nature of its services, resource consumption is inevitable, and therefore sustainability, in the context of Keepit, means making conscious and responsible choices to mitigate the environmental impact associated with its operations. So, what do we do to make a difference and to limit our impact?
What makes Keepit green: Technology stack and efficiency
Beyond running data centers with 100% renewable energy, we take pride in having constructed our technology stack from the ground up, specifically designed to efficiently address data storage challenges. This approach reflects a commitment to optimizing resource utilization and delivering a service that is not only effective but also resource efficient.
Efficiency, in Keepit's view, extends beyond environmental considerations to include broader aspects such as the physical equipment required, space utilization, power consumption, and the personnel needed to operate the business. This holistic approach ensures a sustainable business model — and a profitable one, like mentioned above.
Now, how do we take on the tough task of being sustainable and high performing?
By starting from a clean slate. We built this system specifically for storage, protection, and management of cloud SaaS data. So, we built up this entire technology stack specifically for the purpose of delivering exactly the service we're delivering — cloud backup in the cloud, for the cloud, and so it does this “one thing” extremely well and efficiently.
And one of the things we did is that, well, we did what Amazon, Microsoft, and Google do: We built up this whole cloud infrastructure. We have full ownership of our technology stack instead of building on top of middleware that runs on top of middleware that runs on top of abstractions and virtualizations and other layers that all add overhead.
We avoid unnecessary complexity by being purpose built, and therefore we use less storage space, need less processing power due to fewer operations, and use fewer human resources to run it all.
Predictable costs as a wonderful “side effect”
With full ownership of our technology stack, we have precise insights into the costs associated with running our operations. When a developer writes a piece of code that inefficiently utilizes resources, it’s something the operations team will see, and it directly impacts them. Efficiency and sustainability are integral parts of our culture, so we address these inefficiencies by writing “better” code.
We don't just elastically spin up some additional set of servers and try to solve the problem with a credit card. But that’s exactly how a lot of people approach this — that’s how a lot of competitors approach this. It may offer immediate relief, but that type of short-sighted solution fails to align with our company culture and long-term goals.
It’s enormously inefficient both from a bottom-line perspective and from a sustainability perspective. And it doesn't fix the problem. It just kind of scribes it further in the future — kicking the can down the road. So, whatever you're paying for with your credit card now are inefficiencies that you’ll be paying for again and again into the future.
They fix the problem with money, but in terms of efficiency, it’s not an action done for the betterment of future generations. They waste energy every single CPU cycle — and they’re also paying for that bigger bill every billing cycle thereafter.
Not only does that power need to come from somewhere, but so does the money to pay for it, which is either passed on to their customers or covered with venture capital.
What these companies are left with is a band-aid solution that’s going to consume more energy and cost more month after month after month — basically for as long as they exist. And on any consumption-based model, the costs will be continually growing with datasets.
Lean, green, backup machine: 99% power saving
Like I mentioned, when we started, we weren’t bound to use any specific technology, so we started with a clean slate. The programming language we chose for the majority of our technology stack is a very efficiently compiled language (you can read my blog post about it.) And if you compare that to common languages, you know, if you go online and say, “hey, I'm building this upstart company on the net, what technology stack should I use,” the advice you will get there is very different from what we chose to go with.
And because of that decision, it means that we're something like 30 to 100 times more efficient. So, for doing one specific operation, if I program that in the technology that we're using versus if I program that in one of these most common, most hyped technologies, we have a 30 to 100 times change in CPU resource utilization, which also translates directly to power consumption.
So, if we had done what everyone else was doing, we would’ve consumed something like 100 times more power than we do today and that's huge. Can you imagine achieving a 99% power saving? That’s basically what we started out doing.
From that perspective, it’s now more difficult for us to make additional power savings since we’re already so efficient. Sure, it looks good when companies boast “15% energy savings,” but another way of looking at that — and we do from our perspective — is that their waste was high, their tech stack wasn’t lean. Of course, it’s good that they improve, but they’re still not even close from an efficiency standpoint.
Reducing consumption with incremental backup and deduplication
If you look at the core service that we provide, we make a copy of your data set a couple of times a day. We keep that copy for as long as you want as a customer company. Some companies need seven years of retention, some need 20 years of retention, and some even pay for 100 years of retention. Data retention really depends on the industry you’re in and and where you operate and all that.
In theory, we keep complete copies of your entire data across two separate, mirrored locations for, let's say, 100 years. In theory. In reality, we’re smart about this, because it wouldn’t be feasible to transport your entire data set every day.
Not only would it not be feasible, there’s also no need to do that because of incremental backup. TechTarget defines incremental backup as “a backup type that only copies data that has been changed or created since the previous backup activity was conducted. By only backing up changed data, incremental backups save restore time and disk space. Incremental is a common method for cloud backup as it tends to use fewer resources.”
At Keepit, we utilize incremental backups. We transport only the differences, such as edits, that have happened since the original backup was completed. And this also means that we don't duplicate your entire data set multiple times every day, we just transfer the changes. How does this reduce consumption? Let’s consider an example:
If you have one unchanging file and we hold that in our backup set for, let's say, 1,000 backups, then we will have only one instance of the file. We refer to that original file in each of those 1,000 backup sets, but we will storage only one instance.
It’s stored once, but that file is pointed to in each of those 1,000 backup sets. We’re not duplicating data needlessly. Deduplication means that we need much less storage space and can reduce network load because less data is transferred from incremental backups, and less data is held in storage because of deduplication. This is all possible because every file, no matter the file type, has reliable identifiers where you can kind of say, “This is exactly the same file.”
Let's say I send someone a Word file and she doesn't change it. She just saves it from my attachment, and that can be identified as being identical. Let’s expand this across an organization: If you have 1,000 employees in your company that have identical copies of this file and we have those across the 1,000 backup sets, then we will not hold what would literally be 1,000,000 copies of the file. We will again hold just the single instance of the file and there will be a million references to the file.
Not every backup and recovery solution does it this way though, and as a result, they’re using vast amounts of energy and hardware to power these operations and then to keep all this data in storage. Even if they happen to leverage a green energy source, they’re not exactly using resources responsibly if they are using 1,000,000 times or even 1,000 times what they would with incremental backup.
Purpose-built storage architecture
Inherent in our storage architecture is this deduplication across both space and time. And that's one of these initial thoughts we had and one of the earliest ideas of our storage architecture that we built for this purpose. We did sit down and build a storage foundation for this backup service from the start. We basically invented a file system or object store, if you will, for this purpose: to store these enormous data sets for decades, and we could see we needed something that we couldn't go out and buy anywhere. We needed something that was built for purpose and so we could avoid the problems we were already seeing others have with legacy systems.
Legacy complexities add inefficiencies
Running this stack end to end ourselves, we avoid legacy inefficiencies as I mentioned above. If we had chosen to run on AWS (Amazon Web Services), or Azure, or Gcloud, we’d be provisioning virtual machines, and there's a lot of complexities that get added when you're on a virtual machine: All of those layers of middleware that we don’t have to employ. (And with the storage virtualization: If you’re on S3 or Azure blob, then you’re using very sophisticated pieces of machinery that come with great functionality and therefore great overhead. To store backups on them is like hammering in nails with a microscope — it's perfectly doable but it’s not a very good match of tools for the job.)
With those virtual machines, you need some automation tools and some various management software to run them reliably. So, you add that, then the virtualization middleware, and then you have some resource management middleware. You have a lot of systems, and your software doesn't run on the computer anymore: It runs on a collection of layers that run on the computer which you may share with other customers. And ultimately, even if you don't, Amazon or Microsoft is going to want to instrument your code enough so they can charge you for what you're doing. So, there's a number of inefficiencies that are introduced here. And they all translate directly to cost and power consumption.
But, since we built and operate our own architecture, we don't have any of those costs, complexities, or additional consumption. No one needs to instrument anything to find out what we need to pay. So, in addition to predictable costs, another happy “side effect” is that we don’t have any sub-processors, which makes vetting and compliance (with GDPR and NIS2, for example) easier for our customers, partners, and anyone else we’re in business with.
Conclusion
Keepit's holistic approach to sustainability sets a commendable example for the tech industry, particularly within data protection and backup services. By prioritizing responsible resource consumption and efficiency in its technology stack design and operational practices, Keepit demonstrates how environmental sustainability can be seamlessly integrated into essential services.
Through the utilization of deduplication and incremental backup techniques, Keepit minimizes data storage requirements and energy consumption, paving the way for a more environmentally responsible approach to data protection. Additionally, Keepit's purpose-built storage architecture and avoidance of legacy inefficiencies further underscore its commitment to sustainability, resulting in both cost savings and reduced environmental impact.
As we navigate an increasingly digital landscape, Keepit's sustainability initiatives serve as a testament to the importance of balancing important factors such as regulatory compliance and business continuity with environmental responsibility. By embracing sustainable practices, Keepit not only enhances its own operational efficiency but also contributes to the broader goal of mitigating the environmental footprint of the tech industry.
In essence, Keepit's journey towards sustainability exemplifies the potential for technology companies to lead by example, demonstrating that profitability and environmental stewardship are not mutually exclusive. As we look to the future, let us draw inspiration from Keepit's success and strive to emulate its commitment to sustainability in all facets of our operations.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/test-michael-code-text/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:41:07+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Real-world recovery: SaaS data backup as the cornerstone of cyber resilience
In today’s digital landscape, where cloud-based services like Microsoft 365 dominate, cyber resilience has become a top priority for organizations. Businesses are increasingly relying on SaaS (software-as-a service) platforms, assuming that all their data is secure. However, without the right backup strategy, they may find themselves vulnerable in the face of data loss or a cyberattack.
<?php
class embed_iframe{
	//Embed full iframe html (for Careers)
	public static function html($page,$slice,$type):string
	{
		//Custom class and id
		$cl = '';
		$customid = '';
		if(isset($data->custom_class)) $cl .= ' ' . $data->custom_class;
		if(isset($data->custom_id)) $customid = ' id="' . $data->custom_id.'"';
		$html = '<div class="m embed'.$cl.'"'.$customid.'><div class="inner">';
		$html .= '<div class="header">'.getHtml($data, 'title1').'</div>';
		$html .= '<div class="subheader">'.getHtml($data, 'text').'</div>';
		$html .= '<div class="content">'.$data->iframe.'</div>';
		$html .= '</div></div>';
		return $html;
	}
}
?>In this post, I want to share a real-world experience from a client that highlights the importance of SaaS data recovery and how it plays a crucial role in maintaining operational continuity.
A crisis unfolds
One of our partner’s clients, who remains anonymous due to confidentiality agreements, faced a daunting cyberattack that compromised their Microsoft Azure AD (Entra ID). Like many businesses, they believed their data was safe in the cloud, under Microsoft’s protection. What they didn’t realize, however, is that Microsoft’s services are not immune to data loss or breaches, and the responsibility for safeguarding data ultimately lies with the customer. This is part of what’s known as the shared responsibility model, where cloud providers handle infrastructure security, but data protection remains the customer’s responsibility. Read Microsoft’s shared responsibility in the cloud (source: Microsoft).
When the attack occurred, the client was caught off-guard. Administrative accounts were compromised, some user accounts were maliciously deleted, and there were attempts to exfiltrate sensitive data from SharePoint. The customer’s crisis committee immediately launched an investigation, but they quickly ran into a roadblock: Azure AD only retains logs for 30 days, making it impossible for them to perform an in-depth forensic analysis of what had transpired.
The flow of recovery
By using Keepit backup and recovery for Microsoft Entra ID (formerly Azure Active Directory), we were able to act quickly in response to the cyberattack in three broad steps:
- Downloaded the last 12 months sign-in and audit logs of Entra ID for investigative analysis using Keepit’s unlimited storage and retention capability.
- Traced when and what changes happened on the compromised accounts using Keepit for Entra ID metadata previewer feature.
- Restored the affected user accounts along with their configurations and permissions without needing to recreate accounts from scratch using Keepit for Entra ID’s powerful recovery features.
The power of backup
This is where Keepit became a game-changer. By leveraging Keepit’s robust backup capabilities, we were able to provide the customer with access to logs that spanned an entire year. This historical data was critical for the investigation, as it allowed the customer to trace the breach back to its origins, determine the extent of the damage, and understand when the attack had taken place.
But data recovery goes beyond simply accessing logs. The compromised user accounts needed to be restored, along with all their associated settings (metadata) — something that would have been a nightmare without the right backup solution. Keepit’s ability to restore not just user accounts but also their configurations, MFA settings, and group memberships ensured the client could recover quickly without having to start from scratch. If the client had relied on a standard backup solution, the process would have taken significantly longer, jeopardizing their recovery time objective (RTO).
The lesson: Backup is non-negotiable
This experience underscores a key lesson: Having a comprehensive SaaS data backup and recovery strategy is essential to cyber resilience. It’s not just about restoring files but about maintaining business continuity, even when the unexpected happens. The ability to quickly recover from a breach can mean the difference between a short disruption and a prolonged, business-threatening downtime.
For companies operating 100% in the cloud, like our client, backing up identity systems (such as Entra ID) is as crucial as backing up files. When administrative accounts are compromised, and there’s no backup, organizations face the risk of losing more than just data — they risk losing control over their entire cloud environment. Read more on why Microsoft Azure AD needs to be backed up in the cloud.
Cyber resilience starts with recovery
The ease and speed with which we were able to restore the client’s operations, thanks to Keepit, reaffirmed the central role that data recovery plays in cyber resilience. It's not just about preparing for attacks but also about having the right tools in place to recover from them. This customer, through our guidance, has now included Keepit as a key component in their cyber resilience strategy. They understand that backup is no longer a nice-to-have; it’s a critical aspect of their business continuity planning.
In a world where the question isn’t if an attack will happen, but when, the ability to recover swiftly is a vital need. With Keepit, we were able to help our client turn what could have been a catastrophic breach into a manageable incident, all thanks to a well-implemented SaaS data recovery strategy.
This article is part one of a two-part series sharing a real-world customer story on cyber resilience. In part two, we look into how cyber insurance played a critical role in protecting a business from the financial impact of a ransomware attack. Read part two entitled "Real-world recovery: The role of cyber insurance in ransomware resilience."
Want to learn more about ransomware recovery? Watch Keepit’s on-demand webinar:

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/the-business-case-for-data-backup-and-recovery-external/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T02:24:08+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Why cloud data protection is a core business requirement
Contributed Article: Time for a New Conversation On Cloud Data Backup
Niels Van Ingen, Keepit’s Chief Customer Officer, has contributed a blog post on how cloud backup is essential for protecting business data and ensuring continuity.
This conversation revolves around how cloud data protection is a must-have for any organization: protection that is secure, reliable, and accessible from anywhere. Van Ingen, a veteran of the data protection and management space, provides insight on this imperative.
The more we advance and become smarter and more efficient through new technology, the greater the opportunity for IT to inadvertently fall out of alignment with business goals. By this I mean, technology simplifies things, so users have the opportunity to bypass IT involvement and set up new processes which start driving part of the business. The downside is if you don’t have systems in place to protect these new processes, they become adopted without the benefit of protection around it.
What he refers to as a “wild west” mentality, he sees there is a lack of holistic data security planning which can lead to profound consequences for enterprises. Van Ingen shares how businesses should frame the discourse around cloud applications to safely manage the ever-growing dependence on them and the data they produce to minimize (or in some cases eliminate) business disruption.
Read the full article “The Business Case for Data Backup and Recovery” from Disaster Recovery Journal.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/the-roi-of-cloud-backup/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:34:17+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Cloud backup ROI and what the cost of data loss is
When considering a cloud backup provider, it is essential to make a strong business case for investment. While the solution may have impressive features such as automated backup, high security, and an easy-to-use interface, the most important question remains - what's the return on investment (ROI)?
Can you present a compelling business case to stakeholders and leadership to convince them of the investment? This post will help you articulate the return on investment of a cloud backup solution.
Why backup for SaaS data, and why now?
Organizations are increasingly relying on SaaS solutions for business-critical applications – it has become apparent that even the big providers suffer outages. Recently, Microsoft customers suffered problems with Teams and Exchange Online.
That follows an outage by Atlassian a couple months earlier. These SaaS apps are so ingrained in daily operations that they often contain the institutional knowledge critical to run the business. If you’ve ever experienced lack of access to files, messages, and other critical data, you are probably looking for a backup solution to ensure your business can keep running no matter what happens.
To understand the financial impact of backup and recovery solutions, we need to evaluate the different costs involved.
What is the financial impact of not having a cloud backup solution?
1. Impacts of cyberattacks
Cyberattacks are a real threat and 79% of organizations have suffered a ransomware attack in the past year, according to a study conducted by IT research firm ESG. A devastating ransomware attack could leave employees unable to use core business applications, and the disruption cloud last for days, weeks, or even months at a time, resulting in significant costs.
According to Forrester, a successful ransomware attack resulting in disruption to operations for an organization with 5,000 employees for five days would cost more than $5million (USD). The same ESG study found that only 50% of the organizations were able to recover all their data in a clean and recent state.
The average cost of a data breach varies from year to year and can be influenced by several factors, such as the size of the organization, the number of records compromised, and the type of data that was lost.
The most recent "Cost of a Data Breach Report" by the Ponemon Institute found that the global average cost of a data breach in 2022 was $3.86 million, but this cost could be significantly higher for certain industries, such as healthcare and financial services, with average costs of $6.45 million and $5.03 million, respectively.
But it’s not only the industry that is a variable for the impact, it’s also the country: According to an IBM data breach report, for the twelfth year in a row, the US leads with the highest average cost of a data breach, coming in at a staggering $9.44 million – more than the double of the $4.35 million global average.
For large data breaches with 100 million records or more, the average cost could range from $5 million to $15.6 million and top out at $200 million, according to Verizon’s Data Breach Investigations.
It's important to note that the cost of a data breach goes beyond “just” financial expenses. The reputation and brand damage caused by a breach can have long-lasting impacts on an organization, so it is crucial for companies to have robust security measures in place to prevent data breaches and minimize the potential impact if one does occur.
2. Accidental deletions
Accidental deletions result in data loss approximately 20% of the time, according to ESG’s Tech Validation Report. Verizon reports that 85% of breaches were caused by or involved human error or intentional malicious behavior: This could include mistakes such as falling for phishing scams, using weak passwords, or losing unencrypted devices, as well as intentional actions such as theft of data or insider threats.
This highlights the importance of not only implementing technical security measures but also educating and training employees on cybersecurity best practices to minimize the risk of a breach caused by human error.
A properly implemented cloud backup solution enables employees to quickly and reliably restore critical data. Depending on the data loss, the savings could easily be in the millions of dollars when considering the average cost of a data breach was nearly $4 million in 2022.
3. SaaS licensing fees
Companies are often obligated (especially by increasingly demanding legislation e.g., GDPR and NIS2) to keep ex-employee user accounts active after their exit date to access user data which would otherwise be purged by the SaaS vendor.
It is common for approximately 10% of employees to leave every year. This number can be much higher if organizations use a lot of temporary staff or contractors. The license fees to keep departed users active can be saved by using a cloud backup provider that retains your data as long as you’re a customer.
4. Archiving costs
Are you investing in data archiving repositories? Typically, organizations depend on separate archiving tools to help move inactive data into long-term storage systems. This helps optimize resources in the active system to help users to quickly access data. By having a cloud backup provider – especially with unlimited storage & retention as Keepit offers – you can avoid investing in a separate archiving tool.
5. IT administration efficiencies
IT administrators face a significant amount of time and effort in the offboarding of employees and the recovery of deleted documents, whether intentional or accidental. For a hypothetical company of 5,000 employees with a 10% turnover rate, the time saved in offboarding alone can lead to a substantial financial benefit.
According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the average hourly earnings in the US is $33.03. By reducing the time spent on offboarding from an hour to just one minute with a backup solution, the net savings can reach thousands of dollars per year: $16,515 without a backup solution compared to only $275.25 with a backup solution.
Furthermore, the manual search for deleted files can also be time-consuming and costly, but with the right backup solution, IT administrators can easily locate these files in just a matter of minutes, saving time and resources in the process.
A solid return on a critical investment
Keepit commissioned Forrester Consulting to conduct a total economic impact (TEI) study to evaluate the potential economic impact for businesses that utilize the company’s data protection services.
Based on interviews with five Keepit customers across a range of industries, Forrester generated a composite organization from which it produced a financial model that outlined three-year, risk-adjusted potential savings from utilizing Keepit.
The TEI includes two categories of savings, quantifiable and unquantifiable. Forrester determined that in addition to unquantifiable savings like recovery from a ransomware attack, Keepit offers a 78% return on investment (ROI) and a net present value (NPV) of $225K. To see how a dedicated backup solution can pay for itself in just six months, download the full Forrester TEI study.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/tool-sprawl/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T02:52:17+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Cybersecurity tool sprawl and the cost of complexity
Under constant pressure to defend against cyberthreats, organizations often adopt new security tools rapidly to address specific vulnerabilities or compliance requirements. However, this reactive approach can lead to “tool sprawl,” where the unchecked accumulation of disparate solutions results in an overly complex and fragmented security environment.
What is cybersecurity tool sprawl?
Cybersecurity tool sprawl occurs when organizations continuously add new tools without fully assessing their existing security infrastructure or considering how these additions fit into the broader architecture. Over time, this reactive approach leads to an overextended security framework, where overlapping functionalities, siloed data, and operational inefficiencies compromise overall security.
As the complexity of managing a myriad of security tools grows, so do the risks of inefficiency, increased costs, skill gaps, and security vulnerabilities. Understanding these challenges is critical to developing effective strategies for minimizing tool sprawl.
A more holistic approach, where each tool is necessary, fully integrated, and effectively utilized, is crucial for maintaining a robust security posture in today's dynamic threat landscape.
Having the right technology for your specific security needs leads to a strong cyber defense — not deploying the most technology.
What does cybersecurity tool sprawl look like?
Today, cybersecurity tool sprawl is characterized by an overabundance of security tools, often numbering in the dozens or even hundreds within large organizations. At the 2019 RSA Conference, Matt Chiodi, former chief security officer of public cloud at Palo Alto Networks, noted that small organizations average 15-20 tools, medium-sized businesses 50-60, and large enterprises over 130 tools.
These tools span various categories, including endpoint protection, intrusion detection, threat intelligence, identity management, and more. Despite this extensive array, research and industry reports indicate that only a small fraction of these tools are actively used, with many going underutilized due to their complexity or redundancy.
According to Richard Watson from Ernst & Young, most organizations utilize only 10% to 20% of the technology they own, while continuing to pay higher license costs for technology that they have not leveraged for other business needs.
Watson, in his article, “Simplify to Survive: How Organizations Can Navigate Cyber-Risk,” suggests that a technology declutter is required:
“Simplification will make companies more adaptive and pragmatic. It will support a shift from a complexity-inducing approach […] to an adaptive approach that works backward from core risks and sets companies up to move swiftly when attacks strike. Simplification will result in operational efficiencies, reduced technology and infrastructure overhead, and ultimately the ability to respond to cyber threats more quickly.”
5 critical challenges that come with tool sprawl
Tool sprawl presents numerous challenges that can hinder an organization’s ability to maintain an effective security posture. Five of the top side effects of tool sprawl are:
1. Operational inefficiency
2. Increased costs
3. Skill gaps
4. Visibility and control issues
5. Integration challenges
Operational inefficiency arises when organizations deploy many security tools, often with overlapping functionalities, it creates a complex, difficult to manage environment. Security teams may struggle to effectively monitor and correlate data from multiple tools, leading to missed threats and slower response times. The lack of integration between these tools can also result in fragmented security processes, where critical information is siloed and not shared across platforms. (Read about efficient tech stacks by Keepit CTO Jakob Østergaard.)
Increased costs are another significant issue. Each tool requires licensing, maintenance, and support, which can quickly escalate expenses. Additionally, the need for specialized personnel to manage and operate these tools further drives up costs. In many cases, organizations find themselves paying for tools that are underutilized or even redundant, exacerbating the financial burden.
Skill gaps among security staff can also be a challenge. The more tools an organization uses, the more difficult it becomes for the security team to be proficient with each one. This can lead to suboptimal use of the tools, where their full capabilities are not leveraged, ultimately weakening the organization’s overall security posture. The difficulty of keeping up with updates and best practices for a wide array of tools can also contribute to skill gaps and operational errors.
Visibility and control issues often arise in environments plagued by tool sprawl. With so many tools in play, maintaining comprehensive visibility across the network becomes challenging. This fragmented visibility can result in blind spots, where security incidents may go unnoticed or unaddressed. Moreover, the lack of centralized control can make it difficult to enforce consistent security policies across the organization, as well as thorough testing of a larger-than-necessary attack surface. (Read our article on “simplicity as a shield” and immutability.)
Finally, integration challenges are a common problem. Many organizations use a mix of legacy systems and new technologies that do not easily integrate with each other. This lack of integration can prevent security tools from working together effectively, reducing their overall effectiveness and complicating incident response efforts. Without seamless integration, data from different tools might not be aggregated and analyzed properly, leading to delays in threat detection and response.
While cybersecurity tools are essential for protecting an organization’s digital assets, excessive tool sprawl ultimately leads to significant challenges — all of which can weaken an organization’s security posture rather than strengthen it. Reducing tool sprawl through strategic consolidation and better tool management can help mitigate these challenges.
How can security leaders minimize tool sprawl?
Minimizing cybersecurity tool sprawl is crucial for maintaining an effective and efficient security posture. Here are several strategies that security leaders can adopt to tackle this challenge:
- Data governance and prioritization: Start by clearly defining which data and assets are most critical to your organization. By understanding the specific areas that require protection, you can prioritize monitoring and tool selection efforts. This targeted approach ensures that resources are allocated efficiently and that security tools are directly aligned with the organization’s most valuable assets.
- Recovery testing and centralized oversight: Regular recovery testing of backed-up data can help centralize security efforts. Centralizing oversight and validation processes not only minimizes sprawl but also ensures that your security measures are comprehensive and cohesive, minimizing gaps in protection.
- Strategic SIEM implementation: Implementing a robust Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) system can consolidate monitoring efforts. A well-integrated SIEM can aggregate data from various sources, reducing the necessity to monitor multiple platforms independently. This consolidation simplifies the security environment and helps to avoid the complexities that lead to tool sprawl.
- Selective tool acquisition: Before acquiring new security tools, it's essential to clearly define your monitoring objectives. Any new tool should be evaluated for its ability to integrate seamlessly with your existing SIEM infrastructure. This careful selection process prevents the unnecessary expansion of the toolset and ensures that each addition provides real value.
- Diversified intelligence sources: While integration is key, it's also important to maintain diverse sources of intelligence. This diversification allows for cross-verification of threat information, leading to more accurate and comprehensive threat detection. Ensuring that your tools incorporate varied intelligence sources can enhance the overall security posture without adding redundant tools.
- Resource and capacity assessment: Evaluate the capacity of your security team to manage the existing toolset effectively. This includes deciding whether to maintain an in-house Security Operations Center (SOC), outsource it, or adopt a hybrid approach. Aligning your toolset with the available resources ensures that your security team can effectively manage and utilize the tools at their disposal.
- Regular review and rationalization: Periodically reviewing your toolset is essential for identifying redundancies and underutilized tools. This process of rationalization focuses on optimizing the security stack, ensuring that every component adds value and enhances your security posture. Regular reviews prevent sprawl from creeping back in and keep your security environment streamlined.
By implementing these strategies, organizations can effectively manage and reduce cybersecurity tool sprawl, ensuring a more efficient, cost-effective, and secure environment. In today’s complex threat landscape, a streamlined and integrated security approach is not just beneficial but essential.
Conclusion
Perhaps contrary to the wishes of the endless array of readily “onboardable” SaaS applications promising a silver bullet for your problems, just adding more and more tools isn’t the solution to cybersecurity woes — streamlining and integrating your security stack is.
By focusing on quality over quantity and maintaining oversight of your solutions, you can reduce tool sprawl, enhancing both efficiency and security. A well-coordinated approach not only cuts costs but also fortifies cyber resilience efforts.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/understanding-the-new-backup-rules/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:41:07+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

3-2-1 backup rule update: Air gap your immutable backups
For many years, the 3-2-1 backup rule has been the gold standard for ensuring the protection of business-critical data. The principle suggests organizations keep three copies of data on two different storage media, with one copy being stored offsite to ensure continuity. But in today’s world, where businesses rely heavily on cloud software-as-a-service (SaaS) data, what does “offsite” really mean?
What does offsite mean for cloud SaaS data protection?
When the 3-2-1 backup rule was coined, offsite meant something very tangible: You stored your backup data somewhere other than your office (or its basement, for that matter). This created a physical “air gap,” ensuring that if your production data were compromised, your backup data remained safe and untouched outside of the domain of your primary dataset.
But what does offsite mean when your data is already hosted by a third-party provider like Microsoft, AWS, or Google? This question is one of the key reasons experts and analysts suggest updating the rule. In a cloud environment, offsite means storing your backup data on a separate infrastructure or domain. Put simply, you need to store backup data in a different cloud from your production data, creating a logical air gap, like storing backup tapes in another physical location. This would mean storing your backup copies independently from Microsoft, AWS, or Google — depending on which service you're using.
As businesses move more of their operations to SaaS solutions, they generate more data in the cloud, potentially exposing a gap in SaaS data protection by not ensuring adherence to air-gapped data protection. A key vulnerability arises when backup and production data reside within the same cloud environment. This means a single data loss event or cyberattack could compromise both production and backup data.
By definition, a backup must be taken and stored elsewhere. Amazon Web Services (AWS) defines data backup as “a copy of your system, configuration, or application data that’s stored separately from the original.” So, to have a true backup copy of production data of SaaS applications that are on AWS, for example, this backup copy would need to be stored outside of the AWS cloud.
Why analysts suggest the 3-2-1 backup rule needs an update
With the migration to the cloud, organizations have shifted away from traditional storage methods like tape. To help face challenges like ransomware and stricter data loss protection requirements, industry analysts recommend updating the 3-2-1 rule to better frame how to protect the massive amounts of data generated in third-party, off-premises SaaS applications like Microsoft 365 and Entra ID.
They believe, given these trends, the classic 3-2-1 backup strategy may no longer be enough. Some industry analysts and experts suggest businesses consider the 4-3-2-1 or 3-2-1-1-0 backup strategies instead. (If you’d like to learn more about the 3 2 1 rule, Keepit’s CTO wrote an in-depth blog that covers how it applies to modern cloud data.)
So, what are the new backup strategies analysts recommend?
- The 4-3-2-1 backup rule: This approach expands on the traditional rule by recommending four copies of data, potentially including a high availability (HA) copy, using three different storage types in two locations, with one copy stored offsite/in a separate administrative domain. This enhanced strategy aims to ensure better data loss protection through additional redundancy and improved recovery times in the face of cyberthreats. It adds an extra safety net of ensuring an air-gapped backup copy, reducing the chances of total data loss.
- The 3-2-1-1-0 backup rule: The 3-2-1-1-0 strategy takes the classic rule and adds further resilience. Here, you would still maintain three copies of your data on two storage types, but also include one copy on immutable storage, which is critical for preventing ransomware from corrupting your backups. Additionally, one copy is kept offsite, outside the production environment, and there should be zero backup errors — a goal to aim for through frequent and ongoing testing and verification.
The role of immutable backups and air gapping in SaaS data protection
One key recommendation is the use of immutable backups. Immutable backups cannot be altered or deleted, providing an extra layer of security against ransomware. Data immutability ensures that even if systems are compromised, your data stays intact within these backups, ensuring faster, safer recoveries.
Air gapping is another crucial consideration. This involves keeping at least one copy of your data entirely isolated from your production network, preventing malware or hackers from reaching your backups. If one system is compromised, the isolation between administrative domains ensures other systems remain safe. Read why you need air gapping.
Though air-gapped systems may involve more complex multi-cloud setup, they are highly effective for long-term data protection. There are backup-as-a-service (BaaS) specialists who own and operate their own infrastructure, making it easy to deploy the new data protection strategies focused on air gapping and immutability of cloud data.
The future of SaaS data backup
As organizations increasingly embrace SaaS applications to manage workflows and store critical data, the need for robust, cloud-optimized backup strategies will only grow. The future of SaaS data backup will likely revolve around several key advancements driven by evolving cybersecurity threats and the unique needs of cloud environments.
One significant trend is the rise of intelligent, automated backup solutions. These systems leverage artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) to identify patterns in data usage, predict vulnerabilities, and optimize backup schedules and storage allocation. AI-driven automation ensures backups occur at the most critical times, while minimizing storage costs and streamlining recovery.
Data sovereignty concerns and privacy regulations such as GDPR and CCPA are also shaping cloud backup strategies. We can expect more solutions prioritizing compliance, allowing organizations to store data in geographically appropriate locations while maintaining backup integrity.
As multi-cloud environments become the norm, businesses will need strategies that span different cloud platforms. This diversification enhances resilience but requires solutions that can seamlessly manage data across multiple environments, ensuring quick recovery without loss. Cross-cloud replication and disaster recovery (DR) are becoming essential in this multi-cloud world.
Lastly, the integration of blockchain technology (Merkle trees) for immutable and verifiable backups plays a role in SaaS data protection’s future. Data immutability helps ensure that backup data cannot be tampered with, providing strong protection against ransomware and insider threats.
Final remarks: Is the 3-2-1 backup rule outdated?
The classic 3-2-1 backup rule has served businesses well for decades, but industry analysts believe the shift to cloud SaaS environments necessitates modern adaptations to the rule to help frame and clarify which elements are vital to avoid dangerous gaps in SaaS data protection. Whether following the 4-3-2-1, 3-2-1-1-0, or the 3-2-1 rule, businesses must prioritize immutability, air gapping, and cross-cloud redundancy to ensure comprehensive data protection.
Ensuring your approach to data protection incorporates immutable backups and air-gap strategies will significantly enhance your ability to prevent data loss and maintain the integrity of your cloud data backups. By adopting these best practices, you can better safeguard your data and operational resilience — even in the face of the most sophisticated attacks.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/us-white-house-releases-new-cyberattack-fact-sheet/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:20:08+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

US White House urges businesses to brace for impact as threat from Russian hackers grows
White House Releases New Cyberattack Fact Sheet. Here’s how Keepit helps businesses secure data.
US President Joe Biden has warned American business leaders to strengthen their companys’ cybersecurity defenses right now. As a cybersecurity measure, the US Government via White House Fact Sheet has directly advised companies to: “Back up your data and ensure you have offline backups beyond the reach of malicious actors.”
Why is the White House concerned?
Senior US law enforcement and Homeland Security officials said that there is a growing concern of Russia instigating cyber attacks against the West. According to officials, potential targets are banking systems, electrical grids, and mobile networks. The US banking system is one example of a hot target for cyberattacks as a retaliatory move for sanctions against Russia’s financial system. That said, no sector nor industry is safe.
Cautioning the private sector, US President Biden said: “If you have not already done so, I urge our private sector partners to harden your cyber defenses immediately by implementing the best practices we have developed together over the last year. You have the power, the capacity, and the responsibility to strengthen the cyber security and resilience of the critical services and technologies on which Americans rely.”
What does this mean for cloud-based data and apps such as Microsoft 365, Salesforce, etc.?
Backing up cloud SaaS data is the responsibility of the SaaS customer, not the vendor. However, this reality is not yet well understood by organizations, and with the lack of understanding comes significant risk: Gartner estimates that, by 2022, 70% of organizations will have suffered disruption due to unrecoverable data loss in a SaaS application.
How Keepit can help your business comply with White House recommendations
The White House laid out some concrete recommendations, and here are a couple of examples of how Keepit helps you adhere to them:
“Back up your data and ensure you have offline backups beyond the reach of malicious actors”. US White House Fact Sheet.
Backing up cloud SaaS data is the responsibility of the SaaS customer, not the vendor. Without an off-site backup of your cloud-based data, you are at risk from ransomware attacks and data loss. Even Microsoft itself recommends using a third-party backup for Office 365. This is why thousands of companies have chosen Keepit to keep their cloud data safe.
To get the same benefits of an offline backup for your cloud SaaS data, only an infrastructure completely independent from public cloud environments can provide true backup and help you comply with the 3-2-1 backup rule.
This premise led us to build, from the ground up, the Keepit cloud: A vendor-independent and dedicated SaaS data protection solution that is resilient and secure. Our data center strategy focuses on redundancy: Four backup copies are stored in two separate physical locations, so your data is always available, separate from the production environment, and vendor neutral.
Recommendations for tech and software providers
In addition to recommendations for businesses, the White House also encourages technology and software companies such as Keepit to:
“Build security into your products from the ground up — “bake it in, don’t bolt it on” — to protect both your intellectual property and your customers’ privacy.”
Uniquely, Keepit is not a former on-premises product that was retrofitted for the cloud. Keepit was architected and built from the ground up, specifically to offer the best possible cloud backup experience.
Bringing on-premises legacy into the cloud is not only a cost and complexity disadvantage, it is a liability and potential security nightmare.
A platform such as Keepit, specifically designed for backup in the cloud, allows for significant security, performance, functionality, and cost advantages over less focused solutions.
The bottom line:
To protect your cloud data against potentialâ¯cyberattacks, you need a true third-party backup
With increasing numbers of business-critical SaaS applications migrating to the cloud, and in a world in which new threats arise daily, continuity planning demands a secure SaaS data backup solution—and the SaaS vendors are clear that backups are your responsibility, not theirs.
Keepit can help you comply with the White House’s new recommendations for your SaaS cloud data backup and ensure your data always is secure and fast to recover in the event of a cyberattack.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/user-experience-first/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:30:46+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

How Keepit puts user experience first
Keepit is known for delivering a certain quality of User Experience (UX), which is reflected in customer feedback examples, such as:
"Keepit's user-friendliness is a financial win-win" from customer story SIG and another from Park 'N Fly saying, "I like to call Keepit a Steady Eddie. I know it's working; I know it's running, and I don't have to sweat it."
Behind Keepit's simple design and ease of use lies a deliberate approach, rooted in the idea that our whole system, from the deepest backend layers to the user interface, is built to support a solid User Experience.
However, in the software field, UX has been interpreted in various ways and caused confusion in how it differs from User Interface Design. So, what is UX to Keepit? And how does Keepit go about all this in practicality?
Foundation of UX
UX goes beyond the immediate visual impression and beyond isolated interactions within the product. It is a silent ambassador that ensures a seamless experience throughout any touchpoint. A journey sprinkled with an undefined X factor that leaves our user with instant recognition without the need for explanation -a quality that flows through every vein of Keepit.
An experience starts before the product is even used by our customers. As Don Norman, the inventor of UX, puts it, "No product is an island […] It is a cohesive, integrated set of experiences […] Make them all work together seamlessly."
Leveled circulation
On both conscious and unconscious levels, a human experience is perceived and processed as a sum of different events. The more you know about people, the better experience you will be able to design. To translate such a complex sum into a consistent Keepit experience, we use our Design System as a single documented source.
Here all Keepers will find Design Principles, components, guidelines, patterns, and themes. However, the UX circulates on more levels. To grasp this in a software context, mapping out different levels of the experience can help.
Interaction level
On this level, we work with both look and feel when interacting with the product, from visual design to Information Architecture to navigation. The focus is to design the experience of a certain interaction that a user has with Keepit to perform a task, such as restoring data in Keepit's application.
However, a user interaction can also exist outside the product interface. One example is receiving support. Each of these interactions are single strokes of experiences that play a role in the relationship with our customer.
On the interaction level, our Design Principles, guidelines, and patterns play a central role. We operationalize this with a pyramid logic in layers, with a theme on the top level and dos and don’ts on the bottom level. Here is an example:
Design principle: Keepit sets me free
What users should feel:
In every interaction, I as a user should feel the freedom of being in control. This means being offered the most relevant choices at the right time. The choices should lower my cognitive load so that I feel enabled to effortlessly succeed at my tasks.
Examples of what users should think:
"I control the situation" - "This is unbelievably easy"- "Keepit makes me better at my job"- "I get what I need when I need it"
Examples of what users should see:
Recognizable patterns – An easy first entry to the system – Understandable language
What designers should do:
Always give feedback – Build a strong visual hierarchy – Know and understand the user – Always remember what problem we are solving for the user
What designers should not do:
Don't make the user wait, don't speak in system language, don't overload the user with information
Journey level
Zooming into the journey level, we recognize that putting UX first is not isolated in the product interaction itself. The key word here is "journey". Mapping out journeys enables us to discover user needs and pain points, in the quest of providing seamless and consistent experiences across Keepit’s channels.
There are methods to identify key needs and transform them into design challenges. Apart from organized methods, such as usability tests, analytics, and organized customer interviews, there are also more organic user dialogues. From support, through live events, from sales, and so on. In all these touchpoints there are chances to identify key user needs and discover how the Keepit product can solve real user problems.
The key point here is to identify where the needs and pain points are rooted; define the root problem and translate this into design challenges. Further down the road, when ideating on design solutions, the user experience should be consistent in every chosen design solution. Again, this is where the User Experience pyramid, with its design principles at the top, plays its role as a foundation for the other experience levels.
A level connecting the dots
This means that UX is related to the spirit of Keepit, across the whole company. Throughout the different areas of expertise of Keepit, UX connects the dots and remembers to keep the users' needs at the core of what we do: to deliver simple and safe backup solutions that can set our customers free from the worries of losing data. Keepit's UX delivers this X factor in its tone of voice, the product's look and feel, user touchpoints, and customer dialogues.
Keepit's UX goal is to deliver a consistent heartbeat of look and feel throughout the user journey, anytime, anywhere – pumping it through Keepit's veins.
UX metrics
As designers, we recognize the challenge in measuring UX, since we are dealing with human behavior and attitude. Here we use deliberate approaches such as confirmation bias. When working on improvements to Keepit's UX, our main goal is to gather insight, combined with quantitative results.
We want to understand the context and situation that the user is in when encountering Keepit, as well as how this context affects the user.
We also want to know what works, what doesn't, and why. These insights are gathered through activities such as user interviews and observations. The outcome should be an understanding of user values, supported by quantitative data on average numbers or rates. Additionally, usability metrics give value to the work of measuring. Our different approaches have the common mission of delivering an excellent User Experience, based on data-informed decisions.
Help the Keepit design team
We are always looking for people who would like to provide feedback on our solution and help us create the best design in the world. Please sign up here if you are interested in becoming part of the user feedback forum.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/welcome-microsoft-365-backup/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:12:57+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Welcome, Microsoft 365 Backup!
Microsoft has unique access to back up data – Keepit offers a unique guarantee that you can get to it without losing control of costs.
I had the good fortune to have the early part of my career coincide with a time of huge battles in the computing world. The competition between Apple, Microsoft, IBM, Lotus, Oracle, Sun, Netscape, and other titans was fascinating, and often entertaining, to watch. For every example of bare-knuckle (or flat-out anti-competitive) brawling, there are stories of humor and grace, like the fleet of buses adorned with Lotus logos that Lotus hired when Microsoft brought the Microsoft Exchange Conference to their hometown of Boston.
It’s in that spirit that I write this blog post congratulating Microsoft on the general availability of Microsoft 365 Backup and the underlying storage layer that powers it, Microsoft 365 Backup Storage (MBS).
We know how important business continuity is for the enterprise. Since Keepit’s first cloud backup offering in 2016, we’ve been helping our customers protect their SaaS application data. During that time, the backup market has matured, and so have customers. An increasing number of enterprises understand how critical it is to have data protection for their most important SaaS applications.
Here at Keepit, we’re excited to see Microsoft reach this important milestone. Let me tell you why.
The discussion is shifting
We are obviously fierce advocates for enterprise data management and protection. It is literally the single thing that our entire platform was built to deliver. We have had some frank and open discussions with our more than 10,000 customers around the world to help them understand the value of protecting their SaaS application and control plane data.
Sometimes reaching this understanding has been an uphill battle, though, because Microsoft has delivered some native data protection capabilities such as the mechanism of recycle bin recovery options — which is not backup — but has been considered good enough to satisfy many customers over the years. Lately, the discussion is changing with the increased recognition that you, the customer, are responsible for ensuring the security and availability of your own SaaS control plane and application data in a world that is increasingly insecure. Your SaaS vendor can do a lot to help you, but ultimately, it’s your organization’s responsibility. You ignore that at your peril.
Going legit
Having Microsoft formally enter the backup market themselves is important for another reason. Microsoft's own estimates say that more than 90% of their enterprise customers don't have backup in place. From my own discussions with enterprise customers around the world, a surprising number of them do not have complete disaster recovery capability for their most important cloud applications. Some of this gap is because organizations historically have not understood their part in the shared responsibility model. But some of it comes from a mistaken belief that "if Microsoft doesn't make a product for it, it isn't important." We’ve seen this same belief play out in other contexts like antivirus, compliance, and email hygiene. As soon as Microsoft commits resources and talent to delivering a new capability, enterprises perk up and start asking great questions about whether they need the shiny new thing.
The Microsoft platform advantage
Microsoft has invested decades of engineering experience and knowledge into the Microsoft 365, Entra ID, Power Platform, and Dynamics 365 platforms. Because they have complete control over and visibility into every aspect of those platforms, their first-party backup solution delivers some great technical capabilities, including high restore speeds at large scale and great data fidelity. The combination of database level backup for SharePoint and OneDrive and copy-on-write backup for Exchange Online gives customers a powerful new tool for large-scale recovery. No other vendor can provide the same direct capabilities because none of us are "inside the blue curtain." We just do not have the same access to the platform that Microsoft does.
Because Microsoft understands that different enterprises around the world have different requirements, they have made the critical, and welcome, decision to offer their backup storage system as a platform that third parties can use.
Keepit is proud to be partnering with Microsoft to build support for Microsoft 365 Backup Storage into our native platform for an integrated backup and recovery solution that offers great customer value: While Microsoft has unique access to their platform, what we contribute is unique separation of environments and guaranteed access to data: With data stored in the independent Keepit cloud, customers retain access even if they lose access to Microsoft.
Making “better together” a reality
The Keepit platform today offers fast, immutable, independent, always-online storage that protects Microsoft 365, Entra ID, Google Workspace, Salesforce, and more—built on a platform that delivers award-winning ease of use and a transparent and easily understood and predictable pricing model. We are adding support for Microsoft 365 Backup Storage so that you can flexibly choose to add rapid-restore protection for your most critical Microsoft 365 assets.
This combination gives you the best of both worlds: Keepit’s reliable, broad, and inexpensive protection for every asset, plus fast, full-scale restores from Microsoft, all managed through a single console. Keepit protects the full range of critical objects, including conditional access policies, application registrations, users, mailboxes, SharePoint sites, Teams channels, Microsoft 365 Groups, CRM data, and more; Microsoft 365 Backup Storage adds rapid-restore protection for the object types they protect.
Future best practice?
For customers, the perfect backup setup for Microsoft 365 will be this: A full, immutable, logically and physically separate backup of all of Microsoft 365 and Entra ID in Keepit, with extra restore capabilities of critical data sets in Microsoft 365 Backup Storage. In this setup, customers can keep costs under control, and have guaranteed access to all data, in the event of losing access to Microsoft tenants or administrator credentials.
Where next?
Our integration with Microsoft 365 Backup Storage is currently in private preview and we are rolling this feature out to eligible customers soon. Joining the preview is the best way to engage with our product team and give us feedback during the adoption cycle. This initial integration is just the start—as part of our overall initiative to deliver more intelligent guided data protection, we are able to leverage the combined strengths of Microsoft and Keepit’s respective platforms. That puts Keepit in a unique position to leverage key intelligence from customer tenants to both recommend backup configuration and to intelligently provide access and provide “Guided Recovery” when needed.
Some examples of what Keepit’s integrated solution will deliver over time:
- Keepit will suggest which data items might benefit from rapid restore protection, using data about activity and cost to intelligently balance recovery time, coverage, and cost.
- When a user requests a restore, Keepit will know exactly where to retrieve the data from to get it back both completely and quickly.
- Seamless integrated restore across both storage platforms, allowing one-click restore of Entra ID alongside Microsoft 365 data
- Automatic migration of data between platforms to provide cost-effective long-term data preservation giving you the right protection for the different types of data you have at the right cost.
- Integrated auditing and management to help define, monitor, and enforce backup and compliance policies
We have lots more planned that we’ll be sharing as planning and development advance.
If you’re interested in joining the preview program, or learning more about Keepit’s data protection platform, visit https://www.keepit.com.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/what-is-dora/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-25T11:52:01+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

What is the EU Digital Operational Resilience Act (DORA)?
The Digital Operational Resilience Act (DORA) is a regulatory framework enacted by the European Union aimed at increasing the cyber resilience of financial services institutions. Effective from January 17, 2025, DORA (EU regulation 2022/2554) mandates that financial organizations within the EU enhance their operational resilience against disruptions such as cyberattacks, emphasizing recovery and continuity over traditional detect-and-protect methods.
By mandating stringent standards for information and communication technology (ICT) risk management, incident reporting, resilience testing, and third-party service provider oversight, DORA will ensure that the financial sector in Europe can maintain business continuity during and after serious operational disruptions.
Who must comply with DORA standards?
Under DORA, a wide range of financial entities — including banks, insurance firms, investment companies, cryptocurrency exchanges, trading platforms, and other critical service providers — must comply with rigorous standards to ensure operational stability. This comprehensive regulation spans organizational, technical, operational, and people-related aspects.
This regulation necessitates comprehensive changes in how financial institutions approach ICT risk management, incident reporting, resilience testing, third-party risk management, and information sharing. By integrating these elements into their operational strategies, organizations can better prepare for and mitigate the impacts of potential cyber threats, thereby maintaining the stability and integrity of the financial system across the EU.
DORA represents a significant shift towards a more resilient and secure financial sector, encouraging proactive measures and collaborative efforts to combat cyber threats effectively.
5 key DORA regulation requirements, with relevant chapters and articles
- ICT risk management: Chapter II, Articles 5 to 16
- Incident reporting: Chapter III, Articles 17 to 23
- Resilience testing: Chapter IV, Articles 24 to 27
- Third-party risk management: Chapter V, Articles 28 to 44
- Information sharing: Chapter VI, Article 45
The DORA framework is structured around five primary pillars spanning articles and chapters of the regulation in the Official Journal of the EU. Reference this resource to read more about the specific articles.
The regulation’s objectives for strengthening EU financial entities are achieved through:
1. ICT risk management: This pillar emphasizes the development of a comprehensive ICT risk management framework. This framework should encompass strategies, policies, procedures, protocols, and tools necessary, including backup and restore procedures, for safeguarding ICT systems. The management body, typically the board of directors, holds the responsibility for this framework. Although the bulk of DORA requirements falls under IT teams, the risk management function must integrate these requirements into the overall risk management strategies of the company.
2. ICT-related incident management and reporting: This component requires firms to classify and report all significant ICT-related incidents to the appropriate supervisory authorities. A "major" incident is defined as one that significantly impacts the network and information systems supporting critical or important functions of the entity. Firms must provide an initial notification, an interim progress report, and a final report analyzing the incident's root causes. This standardization aims to improve incident response and management processes.
3. Operational resilience testing: Annual testing of ICT systems is mandated to evaluate the effectiveness of a firm's digital operational resilience. These tests should include gap analyses and vulnerability assessments. Larger organizations must conduct threat-led penetration testing (TLPT) every three years. While many companies already perform some level of resilience testing, DORA sets specific requirements that may necessitate changes to existing practices.
4. Third-party risk management: Integrating third-party risk management into the company's ICT risk framework is essential. Financial entities must thoroughly assess potential ICT service providers before entering into contractual agreements. This involves ensuring that contracts address the use of ICT systems or processes critical to important functions, comply with supervisory requirements, and identify and mitigate associated risks. Additionally, firms must maintain a detailed register of all contractual agreements related to ICT services.
5. Information sharing: DORA encourages, but does not mandate, the sharing of cyberthreat information and intelligence among financial entities. This sharing should occur within trusted communities and be formalized through structured arrangements. Any shared information must be reported to the relevant supervisory authorities, promoting a collaborative approach to enhancing digital operational resilience.
How DORA impacts the financial sector of the European Union
DORA significantly reshapes cybersecurity for the European financial sector, introducing strict measures to enhance operational resilience and ensure robust protection against cyberthreats:
- Enhanced cybersecurity and resilience: DORA mandates that financial entities implement robust cybersecurity measures to ensure their systems can withstand and recover from cyber threats and incidents. This includes regular testing, incident reporting, and continuous monitoring to identify vulnerabilities and mitigate risks promptly.
- Standardization across member states: By establishing uniform requirements for digital operational resilience, DORA eliminates discrepancies between national regulations. This harmonization ensures a level playing field for financial institutions operating across different EU countries, facilitating smoother cross-border operations and compliance.
- Third-party risk management: DORA emphasizes the need for financial entities to manage risks associated with third-party ICT service providers. This includes rigorous due diligence, contractual arrangements, and continuous oversight of third-party services to ensure they meet the required resilience standards.
- Regulatory oversight and reporting: The regulation introduces stringent reporting requirements for significant ICT-related incidents. Financial entities must report such incidents to the relevant authorities within a specific timeframe. This improves transparency and allows regulators to monitor and respond to systemic risks more effectively.
- Operational resilience testing: Financial institutions are required to conduct regular operational resilience testing, including advanced threat-led penetration testing (TLPT). This helps in identifying and addressing weaknesses in their ICT infrastructure before they can be exploited by malicious actors.
- Governance and control: DORA places a strong emphasis on governance, requiring financial entities to establish comprehensive ICT risk management frameworks. This involves the appointment of senior-level responsibility for overseeing digital operational resilience and ensuring that ICT risk management is integrated into the overall risk management framework of the institution.
- Increased accountability: The regulation increases the accountability of financial institutions and their management. By stipulating clear roles and responsibilities for managing digital operational resilience, DORA ensures that senior management and boards of directors are directly accountable for their organization's cybersecurity posture.
- Consumer protection: By enhancing the resilience of financial institutions, DORA indirectly protects consumers from the fallout of cyber incidents, such as data breaches and service disruptions. This fosters greater trust in the financial system and ensures the stability and integrity of financial services.
- Innovation and competition: While DORA imposes stringent requirements, it also encourages innovation by fostering a secure environment where financial technology (fintech) firms and traditional financial institutions can thrive. By providing clear guidelines, DORA helps fintech firms navigate the regulatory landscape, thus promoting healthy competition and innovation in the financial sector.
- Compliance and penalties: Non-compliance with DORA can lead to significant penalties, potentially reaching up to 2% of an entity's total annual global turnover. The severity of the fine will correlate with the seriousness of the breach and the institution's level of cooperation with regulatory authorities. Financial entities must therefore invest in compliance programs, which may involve substantial initial costs but ultimately lead to a more secure and resilient operational environment.
DORA represents a comprehensive approach to enhancing the digital operational resilience of the financial sector in the EU. It ensures that financial institutions are better prepared to tackle cyberthreats and operational disruptions, thereby maintaining the stability and integrity of the financial system. By harmonizing regulations across member states and emphasizing robust risk management practices, DORA not only safeguards financial entities but also bolsters consumer confidence and fosters innovation in the financial sector.
Additional DORA regulation resources, such as the status of DORA implementation, can be found via the European Banking Authority.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/what-is-nis2-directive/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T02:48:38+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

What is the NIS2 Directive? Here's what you need to know
On November 10, 2022 (published on 27 December 2022), the EU Parliament adopted new legislation (the NIS2 Directive) to strengthen EU-wide cybersecurity resilience which includes, among other requirements, a crystal-clear requirement for backup and disaster recovery.
The Network and Information Security Directive (NIS2) is a response to the increased exposure of Europe to cyberthreats and the fact that the more interconnected we are, the more we are vulnerable to malicious cyber activity. The regulators hereby set consistent rules for companies and ensure that law enforcement and judicial authorities can work effectively and raise the awareness of EU citizens on cybersecurity.
Keepit supports the EU initiative on protecting our digital infrastructure, our sensitive business data, as well as our personal data.
What is the purpose of the NIS Directive?
In comparison to the first NIS directive, the purpose of the NIS2 Directive is to expand the requirements and sanctioning of cybersecurity to harmonize and streamline the level of security across member states—and with tougher requirements for several sectors.
The European Parliamentary Research Service (EPRS), in a briefing on the NIS2 Directive, tells that due to the fact that cyberattacks are quickly growing in number worldwide, as well as increasing in scale, cost and sophistication, “the Commission has submitted this proposal to replace the original NIS Directive and thereby strengthen the security requirements, address the security of supply chains, streamline reporting obligations, and introduce more stringent supervisory measures and stricter enforcement requirements.”
So what has lead to the need for more requirements? According to the WEF Global Risks Report 2023, it is because:
The ever-increasing intertwining of technologies with the critical functioning of societies is exposing populations to direct domestic threats, including those that seek to shatter societal functioning.
Who does NIS2 apply to? Which sectors and entities?
The directive applies particularly to two categories, with those two being “essential” entities and “important” entities.
The following are classified as essential sectors:
- Energy (electricity, district heating, oil, gas, and hydrogen)
- Transport (air, rail, water, and road)
- Banking (credit institutions)
- Financial market infrastructures (marketplaces)
- The health sector (healthcare providers and manufacturers of pharmaceuticals, etc.)
- Drinking and wastewater
- Digital infrastructure (including providers of cloud services, data centers, domain name systems (DNS), top-level domain registries (TLD) and public communication networks)
- Information and communication service providers (ICT services)
- Providers of managed services and managed security services
- Public administration
- Space
The "important entities" includes public and private entities within:
- Postal and courier services
- Waste management
- Manufacture, production, and distribution of chemicals
- Manufacture, processing, and distribution of food
- Production of i.a., electronics, machinery, and motor vehicles
- Providers of certain digital services (online marketplaces and search engines and social networking services)
- Research (higher education institutions and research institutions).
If you are an entity that provides a service that is essential for the maintenance of critical societal and/or economic activities—for example, a transport company—you are, in the eyes of the law, classified as an “operator of essential services.”
This classification will entail a lot of pressure on your technical and organizational structure and capabilities due to the extensive risk management security you are required by law to implement and maintain.
NIS2 requirements, risk management, and security measures
The current NIS Directive requires the covered entities to take appropriate and proportionate technical and organizational measures to manage security risks and limit the damage in the event of a security incident.
The NIS2 Directive continues this requirement and sets out additional requirements for appropriate security measures, which must now include as a minimum:
- Policies for risk analysis and information security
- Incident handling
- Business continuity, such as backup management and disaster recovery and crisis management
- Supply chain security, including supplier management/security
- Security in connection with the acquisition, development, and maintenance of network and information systems
- Policies and procedures for assessing the effectiveness of measures to manage cyber security risks
- Guidelines for basic "computer hygiene" and cyber security training
- Policies for Use of Cryptography and Encryption
- Employee security, access control, and asset management
- Securing internal communication systems.
Negotiating and navigating the NIS2 Directive
A dedicated backup and data management solution can help your organization implement resilient data protection and management services for your SaaS workloads, such as Microsoft 365 and Salesforce.
Keepit offers a suite of services for your SaaS data which can help you comply with the legal requirements of the NIS2 Directive with the overall goal of protecting your business continuity.
However, you need to decide which functions are essential and determine how ready you are to maintain those critical functions after an emergency or a disruption—and finally allocate the available budget accordingly. Read our article: Data Compliance Makes Third-Party Security a Must.
Governance
With the NIS2 Directive, the governance provisions are tightened as the responsibility for violation of the NIS2 Directive is not only imposed on the legal entity but on the management itself.
Thus, management must approve the risk management measures taken by the entity regarding cybersecurity and oversee implementation and maintenance. What’s key to a backup strategy? Read our blog post on the 3-2-1 backup principle.
To ensure sufficient competencies, management members must regularly follow specific courses to obtain the necessary knowledge, insight, and skills to understand and assess cybersecurity risks and management practices and their impact on the entity’s operations.
Supervision, enforcement, and sanctions
According to the NIS2 Directive, the competent national authorities must oversee compliance with the directive's security and notification requirements based on specific incidents—and the competent authorities are empowered to issue certain orders.
What are the costs of non-compliance?
The competent authority can, among other things, issue warnings and orders and (particularly materially) temporarily suspend or request that a person with management responsibility (CEO or another senior member of management) be temporarily suspended from exercising management functions in the entity.
The NIS2 Directive also tightens the sanction options. In addition to having to ensure that violations are punished with sanctions that are effective, proportionate to the violation, and have a dissuasive effect, the competent authority in the Member States now has the concrete possibility to impose administrative fines if the entity does not comply with the directive's requirements for risk management measures or reporting obligations.
The administrative fines are as follow:
Essential entities – as a minimum – can be fined up to a maximum of 10 million EUR or 2% of the company's total global annual revenue.
Important entities – as a minimum – can be fined up to a maximum of 7 million EUR or 1.4% of the company's total global annual revenue.
When does it begin? Timeline and important dates
The Commission will adopt acts setting the requirements for the measures by October 17, 2024. Want to know more about the important dates and the timeline surrounding NIS2 entering into force? Go to https://www.nis-2-directive.com/ to learn more about the important dates.
What are the next steps? Educate with further reading
We recommend starting to educate yourself and your organization on the legal requirements and to start mapping for compliance gaps with the requirement for risk management and risk measures. You can read the EU Parliament briefing of the legislation.
For those wanting an in-depth look into the matter, the European Parliament has shared the full texts adopted regarding this proposal, which can be read in PDF format.
Beyond the NIS2 Directive, Keepit delivers a solid return on investment beyond the critical compliance requirements. Check out our post about the return on investment (ROI) of a cloud backup solution.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/what-is-shared-responsibility/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-02-03T09:17:02+01:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Shared responsibility: Why your Microsoft 365 is not backed up, and how to fix it
While most cloud service providers, including Microsoft 365, offer some degree of data backup, you might be surprised how minimal it actually is. This brings us to the discussion of shared responsibility and why it can’t be ignored if you want complete data protection and backup.
Because Microsoft 365 is so commonplace in business, it’s easy to assume that so long as you stick with them, you have the basics covered. That, unfortunately, is not correct when it comes to cloud backup and recovery. Here are two hard truths you need to take into consideration when you plan your SaaS data protection:
1. Your cloud service providers are not responsible for the safe keeping of your data.
2. You are responsible for keeping your data and metadata safe.
In this blog post, you will learn:
- What shared responsibility means.
- What cloud services like Microsoft 365 currently offer to retrieve lost data.
- How to make sure your cloud data is actually secure.
What you risk by not backing up your cloud data
Let’s start by looking at the exposure a company faces that does not participate in shared responsibility.
Depending on the nature of one’s business, several risk scenarios could arise if you rely solely on cloud service vendors for backup (and the vendors themselves recommend that you do not rely solely on their services):
- You lose access to critical intellectual property documentation such as patents.
- You may no longer be in compliance by losing access to certain required information.
- The entire company loses access to emails and other collaboration tools such as SharePoint and other apps, thereby preventing employees from doing anything.
- Critical systems such as Salesforce, which are based on multiple automations that have been painstakingly built up over time, will need to be rebuilt.
When data loss happens to a large business it can result in thousands of unhappy employees and customers. For small to medium-sized businesses the consequences can be even more severe if they lack the IT resources and know-how to immediately address the problem.
The eventual outcomes range from customer inconvenience and disgruntled employees to severe legal problems and potential business catastrophe. In other words, your business continuity is at stake.
Common data loss threats
Data loss threats don’t always originate from outside the organization, as demonstrated by a study conducted by the Enterprise Strategy Group (ESG) which showed that human error from within the organization is one of the single biggest contributors to data loss.
A breakdown of data loss causes is illustrated in the following graphic:
f you lose data for any of these reasons, cloud vendors like Microsoft will not provide data backup because they adhere to the “shared responsibility” model that states it’s not their responsibility. More on that later.
The 3 “backup features” currently available in Microsoft 365
In essence, cloud service customers have three functionalities that many think serve as backup of their data.
1. Litigation Hold
The purpose of litigation holds is to help if you are involved in a legal process and need to preserve information exactly as it is at a specific point in time. It is clearly not designed as a backup or recovery tool, because:
- Retrieving just a single email requires going through 8-10 demanding steps.
- Based on your licensing plan, your cost of storage may be significantly higher.
2. Versioning
Microsoft automatically saves versions of your documents at regular intervals, so you can just go back and open a previous version, right?
Technically yes, but:
- You only get the random actual documents. What you don’t get is structure—nothing is where you left it, and there are no folders. So, at scale, this quickly becomes unmanageable.
- If there is a ransomware attack, all versions may be encrypted.
- There is zero protection against dangerous and potentially crippling ransomware.
Speaking of ransomware attacks, check out our popular Disaster Recovery Guide for a seven-step guide on how to keep your business running in a disaster situation.
3. Recycle Bin
Just like the bins around your office, the Microsoft recycle bins are emptied regularly. How frequently depends on the application. For example:
- In Exchange: mail items disappear after 30 days, and calendar items after 20 days.
- In Teams: channels, teams, and group items go away after 30 days.
- In OneDrive and SharePoint, they’re removed every 93 days.
- In SharePoint backup, items disappear after 14 days.
As useful and convenient as they are for users, these features can lull employees into a false sense of security because if the worst happens, they are not reliable.
Now that you know what’s at stake, let’s dive into the issue of shared responsibility.
A Crash Course in Shared Responsibility
What is Shared Responsibility?
Although no official dictionary definition exists, in a nutshell, shared responsibility means you and each cloud vendor take shared ownership for accessing your data in the cloud.
Don’t be surprised to learn that Microsoft is not responsible for protecting your data. They are very clear on this issue. You can read a summary of their shared responsibility policy for Microsoft 365 in this short article, and here’s the bottom line (in Microsoft’s own words):
"You own your data and identities. You are responsible for protecting the security of your data and identities, on-premises resources, and the cloud components you control (which varies by service type)".
Regardless of the type of deployment, the following responsibilities are always retained by you:
- Data
- Endpoints
- Account
- Access management
As you can see in the table below, the division of responsibility between you and Microsoft, depends on your hosting. (For the purpose of this blog post, pay attention to the SaaS column.)
Source: Microsoft
As you can see, Microsoft assumes some responsibility for its piece of the cloud service, but it’s up to the customer to protect the critical data that represents the lifeblood of its business.
Microsoft 365 does have some built-in features to retrieve deleted data such as versioning, litigation hold, and recycle bins, however, these also have limitations and are nowhere near viable alternatives to genuine backup.
Who uses the shared responsibility model?
Originally, AWS developed the concept, and today it’s used more or less identically by all cloud services. So, shared responsibility doesn’t just apply to specific vendors or types of services but to cloud computing in general.
If you want to dig deeper and explore how some of the main cloud service providers refer to shared responsibility, follow the links below to learn what each says on their respective websites.
What Microsoft recommends instead: The 3-2-1 backup principle
So, if Microsoft is not responsible for your cloud data, what steps do they recommend?
Simply put, they recommend keeping your eggs in different baskets. The most effective way to safeguard your data is to use the 3-2-1 backup principle, which goes like this:
Store your data separately from your day-to-day operations
You must keep one copy of your data off site (or in cloud computing, on another cloud from that of your primary data). Years ago, offsite storage was mainly to protect against fire and theft. Today, it’s more complicated than simply separating data geographically. And you can’t fully rely on cloud access from your SaaS provider, which could be taken offline to protect the providers’ own business interests.
If you want to learn more about what Microsoft recommends what to do if you experience a ransomware attack, you can find a good summary here.
Let’s move on to some actionable advice on what you can do next to bridge the huge security gap left by shared responsibility.
5 ways to find a backup solution that works
If you decide to heed the advice of Microsoft, Google, and the other cloud service providers, and find a reliable third-party backup solution, here are some important considerations:
1. Find out who is actually responsible for data loss in applications such as OneDrive, Groups and Teams, SharePoint, and Exchange within your organization. Is there a dedicated person or team, or is the responsibility spread across the organization? 
2. Make sure backup copies are stored outside of Microsoft 365's domain. Always have offsite, immutable, backup copies that are stored separately from your primary data. Never store in the same logical infrastructure as your primary data. 
3. Look for comprehensive coverage for your SaaS data, in order to include as much data and metadata as possible in your backup. 
4. Look for fast and granular recovery so you can recover from a single item, all the way up to the tenant level to achieve precision recovery at scale.  
5. Look for a third-party tool that is compliant and offers long-term retention and a variety of security controls.
How to Find the Right Microsoft 365 Backup Vendor
There are great solutions available, and like everything else, you need to find the one that best meets your needs. To help you in that regard, here are the most important considerations:
Microsoft 365 coverage
- Does it support all of Microsoft 365, with all associated data types, such as Teams private chat, channel chat, versioning, and public folders, etc.?
Data recovery
- Can you restore all business-critical data in place?
- Is all data restored in its original format?
- Is all data restored — from a single item up to tenant level?
Role-based access control and compliance
- Can you configure backup admin permissions?
- Is the audit log tamper-proof?
- Can you limit access rights across specific data connectors?
Data storage
- Are data centers independent from the SaaS provider?
- Are there options for data residency?
- Are redundancies built in?
- Can you store copies of your data in two separate data centers?
Pricing
- Is the license model clear and transparent?
- Is data consumption included?
- Are there any hidden costs (for example, for departed users)?
Search capabilities
- Can you search universally across all snapshots in a single view?
- Can you preview documents live?
- Can you control search and restore delegation?
- Can you perform point-in-time navigation or restore?
Simplicity
- Can you easily manage and unify backup sets of cloud apps?
- Can you share public links to end users, and download all the data types and levels?
- Is the interface intuitive?
Backup configuration
- Is the backup deployment simple and configurable?
- Can you scale across any size organization?
- Are the retention policies flexible across the instance?
- Can you segment Microsoft 365 data to meet business requirements?
Security
- Is the storage engine tamper-proof?
- Are there SSO and MFA options?
- Are the data centers ISO27001 certified? And what about the software development and operations organization?
Backup management
- Is the solution 100% cloud-based with no maintenance required?
- Are new users automatically added to the backup?
- Can you automate notifications and backups?
- Is there an open API allowing for third-party integration?
In summary:
We’ve covered the concept of shared responsibility, touched on what the cloud service providers cover, and where your responsibility lies. We’ve also shared some advice on what you should look for in a backup and recovery solution.
I hope you come away from reading this blog post feeling better equipped to perform your cloud data risk assessments. If you have any questions, you are of course welcome to reach out.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/what-is-true-backup/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:34:16+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

The Importance of Separate Backup Infrastructure
Many companies assume that if they pay for a backup security infrastructure, their business-critical data will be stored and secured on a separate cloud – but this is often not the case.
Instead, most alternative cloud backup solutions store your backed-up data on the same public cloud infrastructure that hosts your primary data, which potentially exposes your company to several different risks.
In their Cloud Computing study published in 2020, Foundry reported the top challenges associated with public clouds to be:
- Lack of cloud security skills or expertise (30%)
- Compliance and governance (30%)
- Security challenge and data privacy issues (38%)
- Controlling cloud costs (40%)
By choosing to store your backup data in the public cloud, all of your data (including your only backup copy) is being managed under the same administrative infrastructure. And this is still the case if you choose a different data center for your backup that is separate from your primary data.
The solution: A "true backup" cloud independent of the public cloud
We believe that offering “true backup” means we can guarantee that your company’s backup data is not stored in the same logical infrastructure as your primary data – regardless of the SaaS application or workload needing protection.
With Keepit, your company’s backup data is stored on an independent cloud infrastructure in two mirrored data centers in the data center region of your choice, ensuring data availability and sovereignty.
Keepit is the only dedicated SaaS data protection cloud to date – running on autonomous regional data centers, operating on separate hardware, and managed by trusted employees independent of any public cloud.
5 benefits of building and owning a vendor-independent backup cloud
Having a dedicated private cloud is a fundamental requirement for any legitimate backup solution. Choosing Keepit as your reliable, vendor-neutral backup solution compared to other third-party providers comes with considerable benefits for customers:
- Pandemic-proof: When the COVID-19 virus spread worldwide, the leading public cloud vendors could not handle customer workloads and pushed customers offline. Meanwhile, Keepit’s dedicated private cloud service continued business as usual.
- Accessible 24/7: With a dedicated backup cloud, you never lose access to your company’s information or worry about duplication or compressed data.
- Speedy: With Keepit, the licensing model is uncomplicated, allowing you to get up and running in no time. There are no API transaction fees, network fees, or storage consumption fees. Our intuitive and easy-to-use search tools make sure you can locate, preview, and restore data in seconds.
- Cost effective: The higher degree of control Keepit has over the supply chain means considerable cost-saving benefits and easily scalable options. As a Keepit customer, you don’t need to worry about storage consumption fees or hidden costs. Storage is included, and you can expect predictable and straightforward pricing.
- Constantly evolving: Unlike other third-party security and backup providers, we retain the freedom to innovate and develop our cloud storage technology behind the scenes—something that would not be possible if we were using a public cloud.
The final word: Keep your digital eggs in separate baskets
In the realm of backup, “divide” and “separate” are positive terms, and adhering to the 3-2-1 principle is the most effective way to safeguard your data by having it stored separately from your day-to-day operations.
The 3-2-1 principle of backup mandates that you must have one copy of your data off site. In the days of tape backup, where fire and theft were the only credible threats to your backup data, the off-site copy effectively ensured that your backup data would survive any calamity that could befall your primary data and your primary site.
In the cloud age, however, backups have become much more complicated: geographic dispersal is insufficient to ensure your data is secure, and hidden risks are introduced by relying on clouds that may be taken offline to protect the providers’ primary business interests.
You can read more about that in our Security Guide: Raising the Bar for Data Protection in the Cloud Era.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/what-is-zero-trust-principle/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2024-10-21T23:45:06+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

What is the zero trust principle?
Zero Trust: What it is and how to adopt for data security
Zero Trust and data security in companies
 
Due to the surge of ransomware attacks, the increased risks for data loss, and the continuous adverse effects cybercrime poses, many organizations have adopted the zero-trust principle to harden the security of their systems, thereby increasing their cyber resiliency. 
Cyberattacks have become so ubiquitous that the Biden White House issued a statementâ¯urging American business leaders to strengthen their organization’s cybersecurity measures.
 
 
As it stands,â¯GlobeNewswire reported that zero trust securityâ¯is expected to reach a market value of $29 million USD by the end of 2022 and increase to US $118.7 billion by 2032. This significant growth in the coming decade comes from the value zero trust brings companies. 
The simple fact is that business leaders are following its principles, like consistent monitoring and validation, because these principles help prevent data breaches and mitigate data loss. 
 
This post will dive into what the zero principle is, as well as its capacity to tighten workplace data and security, effectively ushering in what Microsoft calls:
A new security model that more effectively adapts to the complexity of the modern environment, embraces the hybrid workplace, and protects people, devices, apps, and data wherever they’re located.
What are the cybercrime trends that Zero Trust can help curb?
One trend that's risen in recent years is ransomware. Ransomware cripples businesses by locking their computer systems until a sum of money is paid. These attacks are expected to have a price tag of $265 billion USD annually by 2031, according to Cybersecurity Ventures.
With how easy it has become for ransomware gangs to deploy ransomware on a multinational scale, businesses need to deploy enhanced cybersecurity solutions to lessen system vulnerabilities, because “when it comes to ransomware attacks, it’s a matter of when, not if.” Read more from the Keepit blog article on how to prepare for ransomware.
It should come as no surprise that ransomware attacks can result in operational downtime. A Statista report statedâ¯that the average length of interruption after ransomware attacks is 20 days.
Even minor disruptions can decrease employee productivity, impede communications with clients—among other issues such as the significant fines Marriott faced—and impact business continuity. One might struggle to fully comprehend the serious implications that 20 days of downtime would have for businesses.
Zero trust, in a nutshell, is guided by the principle of 'never trust, always verify.'
Why Zero Trust?
Zero trust, in a nutshell, is guided by the principle of “never trust, always verify.” It's a modern security architecture which assumes that internal and external threats exist on the network at all times due to the pervasiveness of cybercrime. And as such, it requires all network users to undergo verification and validation processes before they can access the network resources.
Is Zero Trust really needed?
Generally, employees within a company access multiple networks simultaneously. There are many, many data exchanges between multiple user devices, across potentially numerous networks – of course, depending on the complexity of a company’s IT infrastructure.
This architecture boosts productivity through increased collaboration. However, this can come with a hidden risk when not following the zero-trust security model. 
 
Zero Trust use cases
Since this user’s device was previously validated and is now assumed harmless, it still has access to all the users and networks as before being infected without having to provide or verify any credentials.
The result is unrestricted access to spread malware from this “trusted” device to other users within the network and to other devices within overlapping networks, allowing the malicious actor to expand their reach and damage, gaining access to more and more of a company’s business-critical data.
This example is the main reason zero trust architecture rejects assuming any device is safe. Rather, the system reduces risks through continuous authentication, thereby enhancing protection for your company's network system by always verifying and authenticating. According to TechTarget:
This protects your organization in ways other models can’t. It stops malware from entering your network; gives remote workers more protection without affecting productivity; simplifies management of security operations centers with enhanced automation; and extends visibility into potential threats to improve proactive remediation and response.
TechTarget
How to adopt Zero Trust
According to a Microsoft zero trust business plan, “digital transformation forces re-examination of traditional security models.” And as such, there are many companies offering guidance. Microsoft alone has helped aid zero trust deployments in thousands of organizations with insightful (and practical) guides on how to adopt a zero-trust business plan.
Global cybersecurity leader Palo Alto Networks shares that there are three crucial steps you need to follow to deploy zero trust architecture in your business:
1. Define your protected surface: Zero trust architecture can be costly and complicated. As such, identify your protected surface—including components like company applications and assets— rather than focusing on a large network area.
If your business utilizes Microsoft 365, then you’ll know that documents, email, SharePoint data, and Teams chat must be secured against cyberattacks. Attackers can breach an account with access to the data or hijack your system admin, making it imperative to find a SaaS data backup solution that can maintain multiple backup copies with the needed granularity of data and metadata.
2. Map your data flow: Plan your business’ flow of instructions and data as this will provide you with information on overlapping networks. 
For instance, where and in which formats is the data stored? If your employees utilize digital, desktop, mobile, or cloud, identify them so you can see how data is moved and shared. 
 
3. Design your architecture: Essentially, the network architecture should prevent unauthorized access to individuals who aren’t part of your company. 
This is especially relevant if you want to encrypt data before it moves to cloud storage devices. If you want toâ¯back up your company’s Microsoft 365 data, for instance, we offer blockchain-based encryption technology that guarantees your backups will remain immutable to ransomware threats and data loss. At Keepit, we also offer comprehensive coverage for M365 applications such as SharePoint, OneDrive, Groups and Teams, and Exchange Online.
Of course, implementation isn’t as simple as one, two, three: It involves a massive undertaking and a focused effort to implement and maintain. There are many, many other variables and considerations.
For instance, you can also adopt multi-factor authentication (MFA) and ensure use of updated devices.
- MFA is especially relevant for companies who have stored their digital information on cloud computing systems. With MFA, you can prevent unauthorized users from accessing your organization’s resources.
-  Similarly, encourage your workforce to update their devices with the latest firmware as this typically offers security patches for known vulnerabilities.
 
Continuously monitor your network and device attributes. Adopting zero trust architecture can prove futile if your workers do not audit and maintain a log for monitoring network traffic.
Do I still need to get backup for my SaaS data?
Ultimately, zero trust makes it much more difficult for external threats to gain access to an organization’s business-critical data – but not impossible. It also does not protect you against internal threats nor from human errors such as accidental overwrites and accidental deletions.
Data protection best practices tell us to always have a backup. That is a fundamental responsibility for you, the data creator and customer of a SaaS service like Microsoft 365, due to the well-documented yet often misunderstood shared responsibility model. Securing an independent backup is still the best way to ensure 24/7 availability to your data.
With the offerings from specialized third-party backup and data management providers, peace of mind can be had quickly and from a cost-effective service. This is why Keepit was created: Your data, here today, here tomorrow.
Want backup now?
Learn more about Keepit’s SaaS data backup service offerings.
If you’d like to explore more about backing up a particular SaaS workload like Microsoft 365, find the relevant Keepit blog posts below, as Keepit offers a suite of cloud SaaS data protection services:
- Read our blog about why you need to back up M365
- If you’re using Salesforce, read that blog article
- Why back up Active Directory (Azure)
- And for Google Workspace
- Finally, read why to back up Zendesk

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/what-ransomware-recovery-looks-like/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:13:01+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

What does ransomware recovery look like?
Ransomware recovery isn’t a one-size-fits all type of thing, and as such, it’s important to be thinking about data protection best practices and how to minimize the impact of an eventual ransomware attack — because it’s a matter of when it happens to you, not if.
Because of the complexity of SaaS deployments and all the differing policies, it’s easy to overlook some details and have data protection gaps — gaps that will become painfully obvious when you’re trying to recover from ransomware or another data loss scenario.
So, that’s why I want to equip you with some of my recommended steps that you can use to hopefully make good business decisions about how you can prepare for the time when ransomware comes to you.
Here’s a checklist of six points for disaster recovery and business continuity that I would encourage you to keep in mind and think about to boost your cyber resiliency:
1. You’ve done a risk assessment to find the most critical infrastructure and data assets to protect.
2. You’ve created a prioritized, granular DR (disaster recovery) plan supported by your software.
3. You’ve backed up all your mission-critical data.
4. You regularly test and verify your recovery processes.
5. You’re recovering from backups that are immutable and tamper proof.
6. Your backups remain available on a separate, air-gapped infrastructure.
Let’s dive deeper into the details of the six steps I’ve recommended
Point 1: Do a formal risk assessment
The first thing I’d recommend you check is that you've done a formal risk assessment to identify what the most critical infrastructure and data assets are for you to protect. This is obviously going to vary according to your business. Where are you located? What line of business are you in? What are the biggest risks that your business faces? And so on.
It's very likely you've already done some of that work for sort of generic cybersecurity reasons, but you need to carry it to the next step and say, “All right, if I have assessed the risk of different security threats and the impact that they may have, what's the second order risk assessment if one of those risks turns into a vulnerability that is successfully exploited? What does it mean for my business continuity capabilities?”
Point 2: Create a prioritized, granular DR plan
Second, you should be able to check off the box that says you've created a prioritized, granular disaster recovery plan that's supported by your software. I see far too many customers who come to us and say, “Hey, good news, we're buying your solutions so our SaaS data will be protected.” I say, “OK, that's great. Tell me about your disaster recovery plan.” And their answer is, “Well, we're just getting started. We don't really have a plan yet.”
If I'm honest, I'd rather you build a plan and then call Keepit rather than call Keepit and then build your plan because your plan has to incorporate things that don’t involve SaaS data recovery. Just to cite one example from a real customer that we're working with: Suppose that your operations are in a part of the world that is subject to hurricanes.
That means for every hurricane that you see, you're going to see several other events — high winds, flooding, storm surge, and so on. How do you tell people not to come to work because the building is flooded? You may not be able to rely on Teams or on Zoom or on another cloud-based communication system to do that. That's a part of your disaster recovery plan.
Point 3: Create a backup of all your mission-critical data
I like to emphasize to people that recovering your data is the first necessary part of restoring your business operations. It's not completely sufficient all by itself just to say, “Oh, I have a backup” because if I walked up to you and said, “Oh, you had a disaster, great, here's a USB stick that has all of your data on it” that probably wouldn't be enough to get your business up and running again. It would help, but it wouldn't be enough all by itself.
Point 4: Test regularly and verify your backups
Having a backup of your mission critical data and knowing that that backup is valid because you have regularly tested and verified the recovery is critical. This helps you know, in the gravest extreme, where your data is, that it’s intact, that it hasn’t been tampered with, and that you have people available to you who can coordinate and execute or restore leading to a recovery. Super important.
Those are the things most people think of when they think of what does good recovery look like. Do I have a backup and does my backup work? That's not to minimize the importance of these questions, but they're only part of the overall evaluation that you should be doing.
Point 5: Ensure your backups are immutable and tamper proof
Next, when you do a recovery, ensure the source backups that you're using to do that recovery are immutable and tamper proof — and you can prove it. Why do I say that? Well, if you have a backup and you don't know for certain that it is immutable, then you’ve got a potential exploitable data protection gap. (Read more about immutable data protection.)
As we see persistent nation-state scale attacks becoming more common, one increasingly common tactic is for the attacker to attack your repository of backups, too. (Attacks such as Midnight Blizzard.) When you think about how traditional backup systems are constructed, if an attacker can get into your on-premises environment, they can probably escalate privileges and pivot to kill your on-prem backups. Now you may say, “Oh hey, no problem, I've got backups in the cloud.”
Well, guess what?
If your cloud environment is linked to your on-prem environment, as it almost always will be with Azure and very probably is with AWS (Amazon Web Services), then an attacker who can compromise an account and then escalate privileges in the cloud can take that privilege to account, pivot to the cloud, and start blowing things up. This is the whole focus of the Mango Sandstorm attacks that Microsoft wrote about last year. So, the only way to protect yourself against that is to have your backups isolated. Which leads me to my final point.
Point 6: Keep backups on a logically separate, air-gapped infrastructure
You can call them air gapped, and you can call them isolated. The term isn’t as important as the notion that you want your backups to be stored somewhere that doesn’t have direct directory or security connectivity to your production systems. This way, if your production system is compromised, you're able to get into your backup environment, verify the presence of your backups, verify the integrity of your backups before you start doing a restore. Read about why air-gapped backup is your best defense against ransomware.
Final words
From conducting a comprehensive risk assessment to fortifying your backups within an air-gapped, immutable backup, each step is a crucial layer in the armor of cyber defense. The importance of proactive measures can’t be overstated, so I hope the pointers outlined above are helpful for you and your DR plan.
If you’d like to learn more about ransomware recovery, be sure to catch our on-demand webinar, The ROI of ransomware recovery.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/what-you-should-know-about-byok/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:34:16+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

The truth about BYOK and 3 myths in the security industry
Working in the security industry we are regularly in conversations about how BYOK (Bring Your Own Key) can help solve security concerns around data confidentiality, compliance, protection from espionage, and much more.
However, it is most often the case that BYOK does not and cannot solve the problems that people are led or misled to believe it does.
This post is an attempt to address some of these misunderstandings.
First, we need to establish the vocabulary; BYOK is short for Bring Your Own Key, which means the customer provides a data encryption key to the service provider, and the service provider then holds and uses this key for some security function in relation to providing service to the customer.
Already here now that we talk about it, it should be clear that there are a great many problems this scheme does not solve, as the service provider holds a copy of the key.
Another key acronym in security is MFA, or Multi-Factor Authentication. MFA requires that the customer does not just log in using a username and password, but that at least one more factor is provided, which could be a time-based code the user can read from a device only the user possesses. In a sense, this is unrelated to BYOK, but as we shall see, MFA is often the actual working solution to problems believed to be addressed by BYOK.
With that out of the way, let’s look at a few common myths of what BYOK brings to the table then go through why this is not actually the case:
Myth #1: BYOK protects my data in case my account gets compromised.
That would be lovely, but this is not the case at all. First of all, the data encryption key is online all the time. This is a necessary condition for the service to be available and online because what good would your cloud service be if data wasn't accessible? So, your key is online and now your account gets compromised. An attacker successfully poses as you, so naturally, all data is available to the attacker just as it would be to you, BYOK or not.
Myth #2: In case of compromise, revoking my key renders data unreadable.
This is wishful thinking, unfortunately, and for reasons, you may not expect. As is the case on commonly available BYOK platforms (AWS to name one) the key you bring is not even used for the actual data encryption! Since the service provider cannot trust that a customer can competently generate a strong key, the service provider will use their own key for the actual data encryption.
This key though may then be encrypted with another key, and then finally this package can be encrypted with the actual customer-supplied key. What this means is that the customer has some degree of control over one of the keys used in the encryption of a "key package" which may be used in concert with the encrypted data during a bulk transfer between regions for example. But this is a very niche use. In day-to-day operations, on the most well-established BYOK-enabled platforms in the world today, the customer-supplied key plays NO role in data encryption of the customer data.
The customer can lose the key, revoke the key, modify the key, get the key stolen, have the key tampered with, or all of the above, leaving the day-to-day operations of the service absolutely and completely unaffected because the customer-supplied key plays no role in day-to-day operations. This is not a "dirty secret" in any way; this is well documented in publicly available descriptions of these systems.
The only realistic protection against account compromise is MFA. You can only do so much to make it more difficult for an attacker to compromise your account. That’s why you need to realize that when your account is compromised, someone can actually pose as you, and do what you can do. Cryptography cannot help you at this point.
Myth #3: If the service provider is compromised, I can revoke the key.
By now we know your key isn't used for actual data encryption. But for argument’s sake, let's play along and pretend it actually is (but it really isn't). This means the service provider is encrypting data using the customer-supplied key to which they hold a copy, otherwise, they couldn't use it.
Now, what happens if the service provider is compromised? Let's say that either an attacker gains full control of the service provider platform or the government under which the provider operates seizes their systems. Well, the key is being used by the service provider for data encryption and decryption, so obviously the key is available there in one form or another. In other words; what the customer does with their copy of the key has no bearing on the copy that is available and in the hands of the service provider or whomever now controls their platform.
Realistic protections here are along the lines of choosing the region in which the service is provided carefully and ensuring the service provider implements a mature information security management system.
As was said famously by renowned cryptographer Bruce Schneier, "If you believe cryptography solves your problem, then either you do not understand your problem or you do not understand cryptography.”
There is a lot of truth in this statement. It does not mean that cryptography does not play an important role in solving security challenges, but it does underline that simple encryption in isolation does not solve the challenges we are facing.
BYOK limitations and MFA
BYOK is no silver bullet. In fact, it is very often not even helpful. Further, if the employment of BYOK delays initiatives to seriously implement MFA or other effective security mechanisms, then BYOK may be outright harmful to the overall security posture of your organization.
I hope this short write-up helps bring clarity to an area of information security that is too often not discussed in detail or even widely understood.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/when-disaster-strikes/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-07-01T14:08:54+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

When disaster strikes, who controls your SaaS data?
One of the things I've noticed over years of working in the Microsoft ecosystem is how many organizations assume their SaaS data is automatically protected. It's an understandable assumption. These platforms are reliable. The uptime is impressive. But availability and recoverability are different considerations — and that distinction matters a great deal when something goes wrong.
SaaS changed disaster recovery in a fundamental way. In an on-premises model, the organization owns both the application and the data, so the recovery model is relatively unified. In SaaS, the provider runs the service, but the customer still carries the consequences if data is lost, corrupted, or locked. The shared responsibility model makes this explicit: The SaaS provider runs the platform; you're responsible for your data, identities, configurations, and recoverability. This is commonly referred to as the data protection gap.
That gap is wider than most organizations realize. A recent CIO MarketPulse survey found that 37% of organizations still do nothing for SaaS data protection beyond relying on native protections. Nearly half had already suffered a major data loss event. And yet 53% believed they could recover from a major loss within 24 hours, while 11% said it would take a month or might not be possible at all. Confidence and readiness don't always match.
The four Ms of data loss
Most SaaS data loss incidents follow patterns. I've found it useful to frame the most common causes as “the four Ms.”
Malicious attacks. Ransomware, credential abuse, destructive compromise. Attackers increasingly look for and compromise backups because weakening recovery gives them a more effective position when negotiating a ransom. Resilience here requires immutable, logically isolated backup copies. Speed of recovery matters, but so does sequence: In a SaaS incident, you often need to restore identities before data, and permissions before access.
Mistakes by admins. These are among the most common (and most underestimated) causes of data loss. A retention setting changed by accident. A security group deleted. An AI agent given too much authority over live data and not enough guardrails. The blast radius of a single admin action in Microsoft 365 can be surprisingly large. Admins aren't careless; they're under pressure to do more, faster, with less. Mistakes are going to happen. The question is whether your backup can restore not just content, but metadata, object relationships, and identity structures.
Mishaps at your cloud provider. Hyperscalers are highly resilient, but not infallible. Microsoft's Azure Front Door incident in late 2025 was a useful reminder. A valid sequence of configuration changes exposed a latent bug in the data plane, producing cascading impacts across Azure, Microsoft 365, Power Platform, and Entra ID. The provider fixed it, but the takeaway for customers is clear: Availability of the service is not the same as recoverability of your data. You still need an independent path.
Migrations gone bad. Tenant moves, mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, cutovers — these create data risk even when no attack has occurred. If a migration fails halfway through, if data ends up in the wrong environment, or if the wrong content gets transferred in a divestiture, you need a known-good record of the source state. Without one, it's very hard to prove what should have moved, what should have stayed, and whether sensitive data ended up somewhere it shouldn't.
Resilience is backup plus tested recovery
Here's the thing about backup: You only get resilience when you've proved you can actually recover with your backups. A backup that exists in theory but has never been exercised under realistic conditions doesn’t count.
Your testing needs to be scenario-based. That means running through the incidents you're actually likely to face — ransomware, large-scale admin error, provider-side disruption, identity corruption, bulk restore — not just demonstrating that someone can recover a single deleted file. Keepit's Annual Data Report found that nine in 10 enterprise and commercial-size organizations validate bulk recovery at least once a year, which suggests it's already a standard marker of recovery maturity at scale.
Identity recovery is a persistent blind spot. Organizations test identity restores roughly four times less often than productivity data restores. And that difference matters. If Entra ID (Microsoft's cloud identity service) can't be recovered cleanly, access to Microsoft 365 and every other SaaS system federated to it may be unavailable, even when the underlying data is intact. Testing has to include identities, object relationships, and cross-tenant restore scenarios, not just files and mailboxes.
How often you test matters, but cadence alone doesn't define readiness. You can test monthly and still have weak documentation, unclear ownership, or blind spots around control-plane recovery. The real measure is whether the organization can restore the right data, in the right order, in a realistic scenario.
Sovereignty has to be part of the design, not an afterthought
The conversation around data governance and sovereignty has shifted considerably. It's no longer just a question of where data physically sits in a data center; it's about which laws apply to the data, who can compel access to it, which providers and sub-processors sit in the dependency chain, and whether or not your backup is genuinely independent of your production environment.
If your SaaS provider and your backup provider depend on the same underlying hyperscaler or are under the same legal jurisdiction, you may have redundancy without true independence. Real resilience means your backup data is stored in a vendor-independent infrastructure, accessible even if your primary provider is unavailable, and governed on terms you understand and control.
Shared responsibility says you still own the data risk, while sovereignty says you also own the rules and obligations attached to that data. Together, they determine whether you truly control your SaaS data — in a much broader sense than just knowing where it's stored.
Where to start
Maturity in disaster recovery isn't about achieving perfection. It's about pursuing it and making the next most valuable improvement and building from there. Even small improvements compound to meaningfully reduce risk.
A good starting point: Identify which SaaS data and identity services have to come back first for your business to keep operating. From there, validate that your backup is genuinely independent and immutable. Extend your testing scope beyond files to include identities, metadata, and object relationships. And take a hard look at your sovereignty situation — who controls the infrastructure your backup depends on, and which jurisdictions can assert authority over it.
Want to learn more?

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/when-the-cloud-goes-dark/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-07-31T16:12:40+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-08-02

============================================================

When the cloud goes dark: Why resilience means planning for what you don't control
Most resilience plans are still built around the systems an organization owns and operates directly: its own servers, applications, and primary cloud environment. That’s no longer where the real risk concentrates. Today, exposure increasingly lives in what an organization doesn’t own and can’t fully control, such as the software as a service (SaaS) applications it subscribes to, the identity providers and control planes those applications depend on, and increasingly, the AI tools layered on top of all of it.
Resilience has to be designed around the dependencies outside your control, not just the systems inside it.
Everything is more connected, so failures spread faster
Organizations now run on a sprawling mix of SaaS applications, identity platforms, control planes, and APIs, all tightly integrated and dependent on each other. That interconnection is efficient, but it also means an outage in one piece can cascade into several more. Recovery isn’t as simple as switching everything back on. It has to be sequenced, often around a base layer of shared services, such as identity, DNS, and directory services, that everything else depends on before any single application comes back.
The same dynamic plays out in operational technology (OT) environments in manufacturing, chemical, and oil and gas, where a firewall has traditionally kept IT and OT separate. As more organizations connect AI and cloud services into OT for the sake of speed or efficiency, that separation gets thinner and the stakes get higher. A failure here isn’t only a downtime problem; it can become a safety problem.
AI adoption is outpacing AI governance
The instinct to move fast is already here. In a February 2025 Cisco study of more than 2,500 CEOs, 97% said they plan to integrate AI into their operations, but only 1.7% said they feel fully prepared to do so. That gap has consequences: Gartner predicts that more than 40% of agentic AI projects will be canceled by the end of 2027, largely because of unclear business value, escalating costs, and inadequate risk controls.
The same gap shows up in security and IT organizations specifically. The CIO MarketPulse Report, “Peer insights on AI adoption and the disaster recovery gap,” surveyed more than 300 IT and security leaders across the US, Europe, and Asia-Pacific. Of those respondents, 53% said they had fully implemented agentic AI systems and tools across their organization, and 67% said their IT and security teams have full control and clear governance over it. At the same time, 55% reported high concern about a lack of understanding of AI’s risks. Adoption is running ahead of the governance needed to manage it safely.
Sovereignty is really about control, not self-sufficiency
Data sovereignty comes up constantly in conversations with customers, and it’s often misread as building and hosting everything yourself. In practice, it’s more useful to separate application sovereignty — owning and running every system independently, which is expensive and impractical for most organizations — from data sovereignty: knowing you have control of your data, local access to it, and the ability to migrate it, regardless of what happens to any single provider. That’s a realistic bar most organizations can clear, and it’s the one that matters most when a hyperscaler or SaaS provider has a bad day.
A practical framework, not another audit
Certifications like ISO 27001 and SOC 2 Type 2, and frameworks tied to regulations such as the EU’s NIS2 Directive, the Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification (CMMC), the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), and the Digital Operational Resilience Act (DORA), are a baseline, not a finish line. None of them, on their own, tell you whether you’d survive a bad day.
For that, I keep coming back to three pieces of advice:
Categorize criticality
- This is a business decision, not an IT one. Categorizing the criticality of a system or process has to happen with the department that depends on it — the operations lead, the plant manager, the head of finance, whoever owns the risk if that system goes down — not just the IT team that keeps it running. IT can tell you what’s technically fragile; only the business can tell you what’s actually critical and sign off on that call before an incident happens, not during one.
Minimum viable recovery model
- The recovery order gets set by those same business owners, not improvised by IT mid-incident. Agree in advance, with the department heads who’ll be affected, on what comes back online first, second, and last. Skip this and you get what I’ve seen happen more than once: every department demanding to be first in line, with no pre-agreed order to fall back on.
Test regularly
- Test regularly, at every level, including the parts of your environment you don’t fully control. Company-specific tabletop exercises are useful, but the exercises that reveal the most are the ones that test what happens when a SaaS application, an identity provider, or another third-party dependency goes down, run by people other than the ones who built the runbooks.
One point that I don’t think gets enough attention is this: Recovery isn’t done when the systems are back up. I’ve seen organizations recover fully from a ransomware attack within weeks, technically speaking, only to find that the people who did the recovering needed time to recover, too. Leadership expects a return to business as usual the moment systems are back online. The team, understandably, can’t always deliver that right away. Resilience planning has to account for people, not only infrastructure.
If there’s one thing to take away
Design resilience around the dependencies outside your control. Make it part of your overall IT and AI strategy, not an afterthought bolted onto every new SaaS decision. And define criticality, then test it, on a real schedule, against real scenarios, including the ones you don’t own. Different entry points, same conclusion: The organizations that come through a bad day intact are the ones that planned for the parts of the system they don’t own.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/why-back-up-azure-active-directory/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-02-03T09:18:44+01:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Why backing up Entra ID (Azure AD) is a risk management imperative
What would happen to your organization’s day-to-day operations if your Entra ID (Azure Active Directory) stopped working?
How long would it take to recover — and would you even be able to recover, fully?
Today’s CIOs, CISOs, and other IT leaders wear many hats. With the global surge in cybercrime — particularly ransomware attacks — and occasional outages of cloud services, enterprise risk management is just the latest headpiece.
Increasingly, IT professionals recognize that under the shared responsibility model, protecting SaaS data in cloud services is the customer’s job, not the cloud provider’s; however, comparatively few realize that failing to create backups of the data associated with identity and access management (IAM) services introduces business risk.
Too many organizations will find out the hard way that not having a backup of Entra ID (formerly Azure AD) can have costly consequences — and we don’t want you to be one of them!
That’s why in this post we will:
- Provide a short overview of what Entra ID is — and why it’s so critical
- Share a real-world example of what can happen when Entra ID is compromised
- Explain why Entra ID backups are essential
- Introduce Keepit Backup and Recovery for Entra ID
Let’s get started!
Microsoft Entra ID is a foundational enabler of countless organizations
Entra ID (Azure Active Directory) is Microsoft’s cloud-based IAM service. Managing more than 1.2 billion identities and processing over 8 billion authentications every day, Entra ID is a foundational piece of infrastructure in countless organizations—from small businesses all the way up to the world’s largest organizations.
Serving as a universal platform to manage and secure identities, Entra ID helps team members sign in and access:
- External resources: e.g., Microsoft 365 — including SharePoint, Teams, OneDrive, and Exchange — the Azure portal, and thousands of software-as-a-service (SaaS) applications
- Internal resources: e.g., apps on your corporate network and intranet, along with any cloud apps developed by your own organization
Behind the scenes, IT administrators use Entra ID to control access to your apps and your app resources based on the specifics of each user’s role and your business requirements. In Microsoft’s words, “For example, you can use Entra ID to require multi-factor authentication when accessing important organizational resources.
Additionally, you can use Entra ID to automate user provisioning between your existing Windows Server AD and your cloud apps, including Microsoft 365. Finally, Entra ID gives you powerful tools to automatically help protect user identities and credentials and to meet your access governance requirements.”
In short: Entra ID is part of the infrastructure of modern organizations—and, as is the case with any piece of infrastructure, very bad things happen very quickly if it stops working.
What would happen if Entra ID (Azure AD) was compromised?
When IAM services work as intended, you barely notice them—especially with modern conveniences like single sign-on (SSO). Maybe you encounter the occasional multi-factor authentication (MFA) requirement, but, for the most part, all of the real-time, behind-the-scenes magic is not transparent to the end user.
But what if the magic suddenly stopped due to an outage, attack, or some other interruption?
We don’t need to speculate, because a 2021 press release from the U.S. Department of Justice recounts the experience of a California-based company that was the victim of a retributive attack in which a former IT consultant sabotaged the organization’s O365 user accounts:
The attack affected the bulk of the company’s employees and completely shut down the company for two days. As the company’s Vice President of Information Technology (IT) explained, the impact was felt inside and outside the company. Employees’ accounts were deleted – they could not access their email, their contacts lists, their meeting calendars, their documents, corporate directories, video and audio conferences, and Virtual Teams environment necessary for them to perform their jobs. Outside the company, customers, vendors and consumers were unable to reach company employees (and the employees were unable to reach them). No one could inform these buyers what was going on or when the company would be operational again.
Unfortunately, even after those two days, the problems remained. Employees were not receiving meeting invites or cancellations, employees’ contacts lists could not be completely rebuilt, and affected employees could no longer access folders to which they previously had access. The Carlsbad Company repeatedly handled multitudes of IT problems for three months. The Vice President of IT closed by saying, “In my 30-plus years as an IT professional, I have never been a part of a more difficult and trying work situation.”
So, to recap:
- The company was effectively shut down—completely—for two days
- Customers, as well as internal team members, were severely impacted
- The ripple effects lasted 4400% longer than the outage itself
And bear in mind that these outcomes were the result of one angry contractor. It’s not hard to envision a scenario—say, a sophisticated ransomware attack or a prolonged infrastructure outage—with even larger consequences.
How can such a disaster be avoided?
Why Entra ID backups are essential
First, it’s important for IT leaders to recognize that the M365 Recycle Bin was never intended to be an enterprise-level recovery solution, and — as is the case with SaaS applications — your idea of disaster “recovery” may be meaningfully different from Microsoft’s.
To be resilient in the face of Entra ID outages, compromises, and misconfigurations, your organization needs to be able to search and access Active Directory data quickly and easily, both to use while recovery is underway and to speed up the recovery itself.
That’s why truly managing risk requires a third-party backup solution that:
- Protects users and groups by providing snapshot-based restoration and timeline-based comparative analysis
- Preserves roles and permissions, with change tracking and straightforward comparisons
- Enables compliance and eDiscovery, for instance by capturing audit and sign-in logs, supporting log analysis, ensuring long-term retention, and enabling restoration to another site
- Accommodates growth into policies and devices by preserving device information and conditional access policies
Again, these requirements extend well beyond the functionality of Microsoft’s backup capabilities, because they have a much broader and deeper intent.
Keepit Backup and Recovery for Azure Active Directory (Entra ID)
Keepit Backup and Recovery for Entra ID provides full protection for the core of your business. This free backup solution is a simple — yet powerful — service to help you take control by safeguarding your Azure AD infrastructure from accidental deletions, ransomware, and other potentially devastating Active Directory outages.
Providing the most complete Entra ID (Azure AD) backup coverage in the market, our service:
- Helps you avoid disruption due to lost or inaccessible data by enabling instant search and comprehensive recovery across Users, Groups, Roles, Administrative Units, Audit Logs, and Sign-In Logs
- Simplifies data compliance by allowing you to view Entra ID at points in the past to quickly see what changes have occurred and — if necessary — correct them
- Is always secure, using Blockchain-based encryption technology to ensure backups are immutable to modification (e.g., by ransomware) and data loss
- Is cost effective, removing expensive costs associated with long-term on-premises or cloud-based storage
 
As we wrote in the introduction, too many organizations will learn from experience that an Entra ID disruption can have costly consequences.
Keepit Backup and Recovery for Entra ID helps you avoid their fate. Get your free Entra ID protection today.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/why-back-up-microsoft-365/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:20:09+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Why backup for Microsoft 365 â All you need to know
If you have children, you’re probably familiar with the feeling you experience when you suddenly realize how much they’ve grown over a period of time. Day by day, those changes may seem small, but when looking across years or decades, they add up. So it is with Office 365, which has grown to have more than 345 million paid seats and generates a large part of the nearly US$100 billion that Microsoft will book for cloud revenue this year. I’m old enough to remember Microsoft’s proud announcement that Exchange Server itself had crossed the US$1 billion/year revenue mark back in 2004.
“But what does that have to do with why I should back up my Microsoft 365 data?” you ask. Good question. In fact, it’s a great question, and one that leads to lots of other questions (thus the structure of this post as a sort of informal Q & A).
This steady, sustained, and impressive revenue growth came about because organizations value the collaboration and communication features in Office 365 highly enough not just to subscribe, but to stay on the platform. Every minute that your users are using Office 365 applications and services, they’re creating and editing the data that your business needs to operate.
“What’s the worst that could happen?”
Lots of people tend to think that bad things only happen to other people. It’s natural to assume that the extensive data protection measures in Microsoft’s platform will keep your data safe—but that’s not entirely true. In future articles, I’ll dig into specific parts of the Microsoft data protection world and talk about their strengths and weaknesses, but for now, let’s say that it’s more accurate to say that Microsoft’s native data protection measures may protect you against some types of catastrophic data loss, but there are still lots of things to watch out for.
First, not all data items are created equal; that email in your sent items folder accepting the meeting request for Bob’s retirement party isn’t worth as much as the Excel file that has your end-of-quarter sales data. To make this problem worse, let’s not forget that not all workloads are equally well protected. Some services have recycle bins, and some do not. Some provide support for document versioning, and some don’t.
Second, consider which threats you really need to protect against. Aliens probably aren’t going to attack Microsoft’s entire network and burn down all their data centers—the biggest risk you actually face isn’t Microsoft permanently losing your data (although it does sometimes happen).
Instead, there are some bigger risks you face, including, but not limited to, these:
- Service outages: A Microsoft outage will keep you from getting access to your data. The multiple outages in Azure multi-factor authentication that blocked users from logging on to the service in 2019, 2020, and 2021 are great examples.
- Oops: A mistake by your own users or administrators, or by Microsoft’s service team, will delete some important data. (KPMG IT blunder erases 145,000 users' data).
- Malicious deletion: A security breach or problem will cause you to lose access to your data, either because ransomware has removed or encrypted it or because something else in the chain gets broken.
We sum these potential causes up with a simple phrase: mishaps, mistakes, and malice.
As you can see, the native data protection features included with the service may not help in all these scenarios, especially because you may have important data in workloads that don’t have much protection. Having an independent cloud-based backup with no dependencies on Microsoft’s services can preserve your ability to access your data even during an Azure AD or other outage.
Is Microsoft responsible for my data?
In a word: No, as you can see from this Microsoft article. Microsoft essentially says that they’re responsible for security (which in this case I’ll say means the confidentiality, integrity, and availability) of the infrastructure used to run Office 365, but that in the end you are the owner of, and responsible for, the data itself.
If you carefully read the Office 365 or Azure service descriptions, you won’t find any promises by Microsoft that say things like “we promise to protect your data” or “we’ll never lose your data.” Instead, when you examine their security best practices for various parts of their estate, you’ll see recommendations to back up your data, test your backups, maintain good personnel security, and so on—all things that Microsoft may also be doing, but on which you probably shouldn’t bet your company.
“Do I really need a third-party backup tool?”
It’s an old cliché that aviation regulations are “written in blood.” When it comes to backups, it might be less dramatic and more fair to say that backup best practices are written in tears, lost dollar bills, or maybe in shredded resumes.
The risk of you unrecoverably losing all of your M365 data may seem small, but the impact of such a loss would be very high for most of us. This is especially true when you consider that a worrying number (86%) of ransomware operators haven’t been restoring data even after the ransom’s been paid!
The risk of unrecoverably losing some of your data, though, grows in line with multiple factors: how much data you have, how much of it is high-value, how many people have write access to it, and how emerging security threats hold that data at risk. Having an immutable copy of your important data stored securely in an independent cloud is terrific insurance against both large- and small-scale risks.
If you don't have third-party backup and Microsoft cannot restore your data, you're just out of luck. We went with Keepit to ensure both consistent backup and long-term retention of our data.
Ken Schirrmacher
Sr. Director of IT/Interim CIO at Park 'N Fly
“What do I do now?”
If you haven’t ever lost data because of malice, mistakes, or mishaps, maybe you’re not convinced of the value of robust, cloud-independent backup for your data. Sadly, though, most of us have indeed lost data for some (or maybe all!) of these reasons.
Either way, the first step in deciding how to best protect your SaaS data is to take an honest and comprehensive look at the potential losses you’d face from not having timely access to your critical data. The built-in reports in the Microsoft 365 admin center will help tell you who your most active users are and who has how much data in OneDrive, SharePoint, and Exchange Online. Couple that with your own knowledge of your business and you’ll get a good start on deciding where the potential catastrophes might lie.
Next, think clearly about the risks you face, both from the standpoint of your IT organization’s capability and maturity but also from the overall standpoint of your business. Many organizations have increased their spending on security—which is often beneficial!—but haven’t done anything to improve their ability to protect against mishaps or mistakes, much less to carefully plan and test a recovery strategy.
If, after doing these things, you realize that some or all of your Microsoft 365 data is valuable enough for your company to protect to continue day-to-day operations, then you can read more about how Keepit Backup and Recovery for Microsoft 365 can help protect your data on our product page.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/why-backup-google-workspace/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-02-03T09:28:27+01:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Why you need backup for Google Workspace
The top 3 misconceptions shared by Google Workspace admins
If you’re wondering, “Is my data truly protected by relying only Google Workspace’s default backup and recovery solution,” then you’re in the right place. Cloud applications, like Google Workspace, are an integral part of our daily life – we push data to the cloud constantly. I do it when I send an email on Gmail, share a document with coworkers via Drive, or add my mother-in-law's birthday to my Google Calendar (better not forget it again!).
But is relying on Google’s default data protection enough? What are the main misconceptions when it comes to Google Workspace data backup and recovery?
Misconception #1: Relying on Google Workspace’s default data protection is enough
If you think Google apps is a secure platform, you’re right: Google platform is a secure, resilient, and reliable solution, and protecting data is their top priority.
As much as Google will likely never lose the data you are storing on their platform, they do not cover you if the data loss happens from your side. Google’s default data protection does not protect you against human error, malicious actions, ransomware and hackers, and synchronization errors. You are responsible for ensuring the necessary protection of your data.
Based on an Enterprise Strategy Group (ESG) survey, only 13% of the businesses surveyed understood that protecting their SaaS data is their responsibility, not the responsibility of the SaaS vendor.
According to ESG SaaS data protection research, 45% of organizations using SaaS attribute data losses they’ve experienced to deletion, whether accidental or malicious. When this happens with Google Workspace, Google is not able to identify if the deletion was intentional or not. The data will be deleted and totally unrecoverable once past Google Workspace trash bin’s retention time, a mere 30-days later.
You need a solid backup and recovery solution for your Google Workspace.
Misconception #2: I don’t need a third-party backup and recovery solution, I have Google Vault
As a subscribed user to certain editions of Google Workspace, you have access to Google’s retention and eDiscovery tool: Google Vault. With Vault, you can retain, hold, search, and export some users’ Google Workspace data.
Yet, Google Vault is not a backup tool. To this frequently asked question, “Is Vault a data backup or archive tool?” Google itself answers, “No. Vault isn’t designed to be a backup or archive tool.”
Based on Google’s own support website, here are reasons why you shouldn’t use Google Vault for backups:
- Vault exports aren’t designed for large-scale or high-volume data backups. You can export data for a limited number of accounts and only for one Google service at a time. Vault also doesn’t allow many parallel exports or scheduling automatic exports.
- Vault exports are prepared for legal discovery purposes, not efficient data processing. Vault can’t create differential backups or deduplicate data. For example, a Drive export includes all items the searched account has access to. When many accounts have access to the same items, they’re exported for each account, resulting in lots of duplicated data.
- Vault doesn’t support all Google services. Vault can export data only from supported Google services. Vault doesn’t support services such as Calendar for instance.
- Restoring data from Vault export files is hard. Vault doesn’t have any automated recovery tools.
Google Vault is not designed to recover lost or corrupted data and it cannot perform a which is a critical feature of any third-party backup and recovery tool.
Additionally, Google Vault does not keep ex-users’ data. For example, if an employee departs from your company and, as the admin, you delete his user Google Workspace account, all his data saved within their Vault will be also deleted. To save those data, it would require you to transfer all the employee’s data out of the Vault before deleting the account.
Misconception #3: A third-party tool can only help with backup data
By now, you know that backing up your Google Workspace data is your responsibility, not Google’s. It’s a common misconception that third-party backup solutions are a cost center purely performing secure backup and allowing for data recovery. These are the fundamentals, but there’s much more to it:
Benefit #1 – Cost savings
Budget constraints are making it harder than ever to implement new IT initiatives for IT Managers – They need to do more with less and maximize available resources.
Of course, deploying a backup and recovery solution for your SaaS applications comes with a cost, yet there are important (and substantial) cost-savings opportunities.
The first is through reduced SaaS licensing fees. Based on a recent Total Economic Impact report done by Forrester, companies save on months of SaaS licensing fees for employees who leave the organization – or around 10% of the work force per year. This number can be much higher if organizations use a lot of temporary staff or contractors. Having all historical data available simplifies data management and employee onboarding and offboarding.
The second is reduced auditing and legal costs. In the same TEI report, one of the organizations surveyed shared that seven days of auditor and lawyer costs are avoided each year by having SaaS data availability.
Benefit #2 – Regulatory compliance
Handling sensitive data is subject to stringent record retention and data reproduction requirements for all public records. With a proper backup and recovery solution, you can expect to:
- Gain access to fast information discovery
- Easy retention policy management
- Additional rights to ensure compliance with applicable outsourcing regulatory requirements (e.g., extended audit rights, chain-sourcing approval rights).
In addition, data center facilities leveraged to store the data have high physical security standards and certifications (ISO 27001, SOC-2, ISAE 3402, PCI/DSS, HIPAA). It is important that you ask your vendor what they offer regarding regulatory compliance and data center certifications when investigating which tool to deploy.
Benefit #3 - Real disaster recovery
Third-party backup and recovery solutions must (not should) allow you to perform disaster recovery. The shortlist of important points to look for when selecting your solution:
- Data availability: Get access to all your data, at any time, from anywhere. A proper backup solution provides you with unlimited storage, is cloud-based so you can always access your data, and it should reside on its own cloud for enhanced security and control.
- Hot storage of data: Get your data on demand
- Quick restore options for data: Restore fast, regardless of if it’s a single email or an entire point-in-time backup for your organization
- On-the-go backup status monitor: Get updated with a mobile admin app
Keepit Backup and Recovery for Google Workspace
Keepit for Google Workspace is the world’s only independent cloud dedicated to backup and recovery. It is easy to use and keeps your Google Workspace data highly secure, always available, and instantly restorable.
Keep your data available 24/7 with automatic backup and unlimited storage
Quickly find and restore data, whether you want to restore one single email or an entire snapshot for your organization.
Easy to set up, easy to use, easy to scale
Keepit is a set-and-forget installation that is easy to use: No training needed. You can integrate it with your existing system thanks to our API-first approach. No hidden fees, no surprises, and 24/7 support. 
Choose the world’s only independent cloud for immutable data
Security is in our DNA. Once your data is backed up with Keepit, it is made immutable and undeletable thanks to blockchain-verified technology. It is a priority for us to provide you with excellent reliability, great backup and restore performance, instant access to individual files, multi-factor authentication, and data encryption at rest and in transit.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/why-backup-salesforce/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-02-03T09:21:20+01:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Why backup and recovery for Salesforce
Do you need backup and recovery for Salesforce data?
Salesforce is the undisputed market leader when it comes to customer relationship management (CRM) platforms, with a 23.9% market share, as per IDC (figure below).
More than 150,000 companies across the globe trust Salesforce for managing their data ecosystems – doing everything from gathering and converting leads to opportunities, managing information to understand and engage customers, extracting insights from the data, to sharing information across the organization.
It’s clear that Salesforce is very much at the heart of your value chain, but how safe is the most important asset of your organization, your data? Let’s explore this question.
How effective is native Salesforce backup and recovery service?
According to industry analysts (and even a Salesforce best-practices blog), using the native backup and recovery capabilities can have the following drawbacks:
- It takes 6 to 8 weeks for data backup recovery time objective (RTO)
- Salesforce Data Recovery Service is very expensive, costing $10,000 per restore per organization
- Backup does not cover vital Salesforce metadata. You’ll miss out on custom fields, page layouts, reports, dashboards, and custom code backup.
- Salesforce ended its Data Recovery Service in July 2020, citing quality issues, but it was revived in March 2021 after customers demanded a native backup service.
- Salesforce suggests using third-party backups as part of the data backup strategy.
7 reasons why you need third-party backup
In addition to the drawbacks above, there are many reasons why Salesforce data should be backed up with a third-party backup and recovery solution. Let us explore some of the main reasons:
1. Salesforce recommends it
 
“There are a number of data backup solutions offered by our partners on our AppExchange. Some of these are more comprehensive in that they allow you to automate backups of both your data AND your metadata and provide a mechanism by which to restore that data easily. You can search for these by visiting the AppExchange directly and searching for keyword backup. We recommend that customers vet multiple offerings and audit the reviews provided by other customers before selecting one of these offerings.” 
2. Accidental deletion
Consider this statement directly from Salesforce best practices to back up data: 
“Even with the best of intentions, users and administrators have been in situations where they have either deleted large amounts of data, or have modified records, only to later realize that a mistake was made. With tools like the Data Loader, it is very easy to mass delete or update records. And a simple mistake in your source file or field mapping could spell disaster for your data. It is recommended that you keep a regular backup of your data and to do a manual point-in-time backup before you proceed with any major data project within your organization.”
Accidental deletion remains the top cause of Salesforce data loss, leading to nearly 70% of the data loss incidents. 
3. Cybersecurity attacks
Being at the heart of the value chain and hosting huge volumes of sensitive customer data, Salesforce is a prime target for cybersecurity attacks. 
Unfortunately, in 2019, a cloud-based e-commerce platform and children’s clothing company, Hanna Andersson, had its data exposed due to a malware that infiltrated Salesforce. The breach compromised a considerable chunk of customer data, including credit card information and personal identifiers. The hackers gathered data from about 10,000 consumers nationwide and sold it to criminals on the dark web.
Bearing the sophistication of cyberattacks in mind, it is important to consider what the impact of a security breach is on your organization, and what your data protection plan is to mitigate these attacks.
A third-party cloud backup is a key component of data protection best practices. With reliable backups and quick recovery in case of a disaster, you will not only have peace of mind that you can recover data (and metadata) when you need it, but also that you maintain data compliance.  
4. Unpredictable (and high) costs
Professional service costs are high, as high as $10,000 per restore, per organization. A third-party backup provider can offer superior services for a predictable, all-inclusive price per user, per month. 
5. Limited data backup retention period
Is your customer data part of your long-term strategy? Salesforce backup is limited to a maximum retention period of 90 days. In contrast, a third-party backup provider can provide the flexibility to retain data, from one year and up to 99 years.  
6. The infrequency of backups and lacking automation
Salesforce Data Export Service allows you to back up every seven days (or 29 days, depending on the Salesforce edition). Additionally, datasets greater than 512 MB are exported into multiple zip files.
When compared to this, a third-party backup provider offers you complete, automated daily backups with data and metadata in a time- and user-friendly fashion. Further, they provide tracking and monitoring of the latest backup and your backup history. 
7. Lackluster user experience and poor recovery options
When you need to recover objects, dealing manually with multiple 512 MB zip files is resource intensive. A third-party backup can provide you with these additional features:
- Drill down to specific objects
- A search option to instantly search and recover deleted or modified data
- Granular restore
- Compare and restore metadata
- Restore permanently deleted records
- Navigate snapshots of previous data versions and recover
Ultimately, as an IT Leader, it comes down to data protection and data availability. Can your business afford to lose mission-critical data for 6 to 8 weeks? Can your budget handle unpredictable costs up to $10,000? Can you perform time consuming, manual reconfigurations due to loss of metadata with Salesforce backup?
Instead of worrying about when data loss will happen, by using a third-party backup provider, you can recover data and metadata in minutes – at a predictable price point – regardless of what happens.
Keepit Backup and Recovery for Salesforce
Keepit for Salesforce saves you time, is cost effective, scalable, provides ease-of-use through a simple user interface, and gives you peace of mind that your data is securely backed up, recoverable, and available whenever you need it. With Keepit, we ensure this through:
- Automated daily backups every 12 hours
- Easy user interface which is clutter-free, intuitive, and increases productivity
- Set and forget operation – set up in a few clicks and the backup will be running in the background
- Unlimited storage and archiving at no extra charge
- Technology scalable to millions of users with long backup retention from 12 months to unlimited
- Point-in-time restores
- Blockchain-verified technology for protecting your data
- World-class security with dual data centers and 4 copies of data in private data centers

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/why-backup-zendesk/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:41:10+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

5 costly problems you can avoid via backup for Zendesk
Zendesk backs up your data for large-scale disaster recovery -- a rare scenario -- but it doesn’t provide granular restore of your data, nor does it protect against accidental deletion of or breaking changes to your automations.
How much the data is worth to you, and the depth of backup you are comfortable with, only you can decide. But since we’re talking about things like automations, macros, and triggers — workflow controls that your entire support organization relies on every day — you deserve to make that decision based on factual information.
If you work in IT: When something goes wrong, you may suddenly be asked to recover lost data with a quick RTO (recovery time objective). If you aren’t able to do that, it puts you in the unpleasant position of having to explain why not, not to mention the business impact of not being able to restore the data the business needs.
If you work in Support: An accidental delete or breaking change in your automations, triggers, macros, or views can tie up your support workflow, thereby risking the smooth functioning of your service organization.
How Zendesk backs up your data
Technically, Zendesk does have features to make your data in their system more available. But these are designed for a specific, very broad, purpose.
All Zendesk data is automatically backed up regularly. Not to protect your account data specifically, but the entire platform in case of a disaster. So Zendesk can recover all accounts if there was, for example, a platform-wide hacker attack, but they don’t promise to recover information for your account specifically if an incident were to occur.
This may not seem like much of a problem; after all, Zendesk hasn’t publicly reported any large losses of customer data. But there are some significant potential problems that can still bite you despite Zendesk’s automated backups.
5 costly problems Zendesk won’t protect you from
1. Somebody accidentally breaks your workflow
Automations are one of the key reasons why companies love Zendesk. But what happens when you lose automations due to a simple mistake? A lot.
Take a look at a typical example of Zendesk automations:
- All billing-related tickets are automatically routed to the finance team.
- If a ticket is left untouched for more than four hours, it is automatically escalated.
Now imagine the havoc caused by losing any of these automations. If you didn’t have these automated processes to begin with, your support system would be far less effective. But if you do have them, your entire support system will suffer if you suddenly lose access to them. You would need to quickly recreate everything, get the processes up and running, and hope the customer forgives you.
In this scenario, if you have a third-party backup tool in place, your automated daily backups of your Zendesk automations mean you can simply restore to a time before the automation was deleted. Search for your automation in the system, and with a few clicks, your automation is restored.
2. You can’t restore data at a granular level
As I mentioned earlier, Zendesk has a disaster recovery feature they use in extreme cases. It is designed to recover huge amounts of data in bulk.
If a disaster happens and Zendesk performs a disaster recovery, you get your data back in a big downloadable blob of CSV or XML data. Recovering a single, important ticket or customer interaction would force you to look for a needle in a massive haystack.
On the other hand, if your data is backed up in a third-party system, you simply “Search.” “Preview,” and “Restore.” That’s it. You find the needle right there, within a minute.
3. You lose all deleted data after 40 days
When you delete an item in Zendesk, it goes in the recycle bin. But it only stays there for 40 days, then it is gone forever. It is very simple, yet far too few Zendesk users realize the finality of this functionality.
You delete so many things every day. Usually, you never think of them again, but every now and then, the wrong item is deleted. Or circumstances change, so you realize you need it back. But forget it — after that just-less-than-six-week window, it’s gone.
Not so with your data backed up with a third party. Everything is still there. You leave your options open.
4. When an employee leaves your company, all her data is automatically archived
Now and then, you probably see support agents leave the company. This is a normal part of the business. As a matter of fact, companies worldwide face a turnover rate of 30-45% among their support agents.
When the agent is no longer an active user in Zendesk, what happens to all their views, tickets, and other data associated with their account? If you still need access to it, you have three options:
- Continue to pay the fees for the person’s license after they leave. But with a license cost of $49 to $215 per agent per month, that will be an expensive option with a 30% turnover.
- As a best practice, Zendesk recommends you reassign the tickets and downgrade the agent’s account and finally suspend the account. Please keep in mind that downgrading the agent’s account will automatically delete all macros and views permanently. Losing out on macros and views permanently could be a costly mistake.
- When you back up the data with a third-party backup service, you continue to have access to all data. Your data is backed up daily, so you can simply go back to any point and restore or preview any data. 
 
5. Zendesk’s enhanced disaster recovery is expensive
Zendesk will sell you an enhanced disaster recovery system that includes multi-zone data replication and a host of other features that help protect your data in event of a disaster. Please note that it is available only in enterprise plans ($215 per agent per month). Even worse, it doesn’t even protect your automations, triggers, macros, and views.
With a third-party backup you can save a lot of money for your organization and benefit from a comprehensive backup starting at a few dollars per agent per month.
A 60-second summary, with the Keepit glasses on
As I mentioned at the start, you will have to assess your risk tolerance if you conclude that suddenly losing your Zendesk data would be too costly, whether, through human error or malicious intent, the time to act is now. There are third-party solutions out there, so you just need to find the right one.
Keepit is one of them, designed for fast, easy recovery. And for your convenience, here are five quick benefits:
5 benefits of Keepit for Zendesk
1. Protect automations — automations, macros, and triggers are the lifeblood of Zendesk, and with Keepit, you can also protect these.
2. Retain unlimited data — all your data is saved in four copies across multiple data centers.
3. Keep backup costs down — With Keepit for Zendesk, you benefit from a comprehensive backup solution with unlimited hot storage and data archiving starting from $2.95 per agent per month.
4. Keep it simple — with an easy interface, anyone can recover data with no training needed.
5. Recover fast — get your data back in seconds. Search-Preview-Restore, using smart search and granular restore.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/why-backups-are-key-ransomware-targets/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:12:58+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Why backups are key ransomware targets
And 10 best practices for being ransomware resilient
“Ransomware is the new normal.” We’ve all heard it, and we’re going to keep hearing it. Why’s that exactly? Cyberthreats such as ransomware are a constant concern, and now more than ever, safeguarding your data (and business) against ransomware attacks is a necessity as the frequency of ransomware attacks continues to increase and new regulatory standards for cybersecurity are introduced.
The frequency of attempted ransomware attacks
respondents experienced over the past 12 monthsâ:
IT managers, CISOs, and CIOs are acutely aware of the pivotal role data protection plays in their organizations and are searching for a ransomware solution, but it’s not “just” the data at risk, it’s the entire business impact. And ransomware is increasingly targeting backup data.
So, what’s the level of concern across those tasked with cyber resilience?
According to the Enterprise Strategy Group (ESG) report, “2023 Ransomware Preparedness: Lighting the Way to Readiness and Mitigation,” of the 600 IT and cybersecurity professionals surveyed, only 4% were not concerned at all about ransomware attacks affecting their data protection copies. So, that’s a whopping 96% that have at least some level of concern for their backup data — with nearly one in three voicing serious concerns.
Let’s look into the current ransomware landscape to understand why backups are being targeted by ransomware and the measures (both proactive and reactive) that companies should have in place to not fall victim to the ransomware threat. This will lead us into data protection best practices that ensure cyber readiness.
6 Reasons why backup is targeted by ransomware
- Data recovery: Ransomware attackers understand that organizations rely on their backups to recover from data loss incidents. By encrypting or deleting backup data, cybercriminals significantly reduce the victim's ability to restore their systems and data without paying the ransom.
- Business continuity: When backup data is compromised, an organization's ability to continue its operations is severely hampered. Ransomware aims to disrupt business continuity and inflict financial damage. Targeting backups achieves this goal effectively.
- Data value: Backups often contain a comprehensive historical record of an organization's data, which can be extremely valuable. This includes sensitive customer information, intellectual property, and financial records. Ransomware attackers can threaten to expose or sell this data to further pressure victims into paying the ransom, or leverage compliance-critical data that organizations need to avoid serious liabilities, substantial fines, and reputational damage.
- Access and control: Once ransomware infects a system, it often seeks to propagate to other devices on the network. By compromising backups, the attacker gains a strategic foothold in the organization's infrastructure, making it easier to continue the attack, demand ransom, and potentially cause more damage. This is very much a valid concern for businesses utilizing Entra ID. Learn more about the control plane and why data cloud protection is a must for Entra ID (Azure AD).
- Lack of separation: In many cases, cloud backups are stored on the same network or in the same cloud environment as the primary data. This is true with Microsoft backups and others using public cloud. If ransomware infiltrates one part of the network, it can easily spread to backups that lack adequate separation, rendering them vulnerable. 
 
 Put simply, one attack could reach all your production data and backup data. This brings to mind the adage of not putting all your eggs in one basket and is why true backup requires having backup data on a logically separate infrastructure.
- Minimal security measures: Historically, cloud backups have not received the same level of security scrutiny as production data. Many organizations focus their security efforts on their active systems and underestimate the need to secure backups adequately. If your backups aren’t stored safely and independently, how can you restore your data from them in the event of an attack? With new cybersecurity regulations being introduced, organizations need to put their attention on how to secure their backups in a way that is compliant with regulations.
The protection gap
The protection gap in data security refers to the potential vulnerability that exists between an organization's primary data and its ability to recover or restore that data in case of data loss or a cyberattack.
This gap stems from the fact that while organizations invest in various security measures to protect their active data, they may overlook comprehensive backup and recovery strategies. This oversight can leave critical data exposed and susceptible to loss, damage, or theft.
We can see from the respondents’ answers in the report that backup infrastructure security is one of the most critical to protect, as well as one of the areas with the biggest gaps in ransomware preparedness.
Top four preventative security controls, as well as the top four gaps in ransomware preparedness:
What are the common vulnerabilities in data protection?
- Inadequate access controls: Weak or improperly configured access controls can allow unauthorized users or malware to infiltrate backup systems, compromising the integrity of the data stored there.
- Lack of air gapping: In cases where backup systems share a network with primary systems, ransomware can easily move between them. The absence of air gapping (network segmentation) increases the risk of cross-contamination.
- Insufficient authentication: If backups lack robust authentication mechanisms, malicious actors can gain unauthorized access to backup data, manipulate it, or delete it without hindrance.
- No data immutability: Without data immutability, backup data is vulnerable to tampering by ransomware. Attackers can alter or delete backup files, rendering them useless for recovery.
- Single points of failure: Relying on a single backup solution or location can result in a single point of failure. If this point is compromised by ransomware, an organization may lose both primary and backup data.
Understanding the vulnerabilities and the tactics used by ransomware to attack backup systems is essential for developing a comprehensive defense strategy to protect valuable data assets and maintain business continuity.
Safeguarding your data: Data protection best practices
Organizations employ various strategies and technologies to protect their cloud-based backups and ensure data integrity, and there are well-established best practices proven effective at keeping data safe and companies compliant with all regulatory bodies, such as NIS2 and GDPR. These methods are essential for safeguarding cloud data against various threats, including ransomware.
Here's 10 best practices that organizations typically follow to ensure their cloud-based backups are protected and that their businesses meet regulatory and compliance standards:
- Access control: Access to cloud backup systems is tightly controlled. Only authorized personnel are granted permission to modify or delete backup data stored in the cloud. Access control mechanisms may include role-based access control (RBAC) and multi-factor authentication (MFA) to enhance security. It’s also important to limit the number of subprocessors to as few as possible: Some backup solutions even have zero subprocessors.
 
 
- Encryption: Backup data stored in the cloud is encrypted both in transit and at rest. This ensures that even if an attacker gains access to the data, it remains unintelligible without the right decryption keys.
 
 
- Data immutability: Immutability features are implemented to prevent the unauthorized modification or deletion of backup data. This safeguards the integrity of the cloud backups, making them resilient to ransomware attacks.
 
 
- Regular cloud backups: Organizations perform regular backups of their cloud data to ensure that information is backed up frequently. This minimizes the amount of data that could be lost in an attack or data corruption.
- Offline and air-gapped backups: Some organizations maintain offline or air-gapped cloud backups. These backups are physically disconnected from the network, making them immune to online attacks, including ransomware. Air-gapped cloud backups are especially effective in preventing data loss due to cyber threats.
- Versioning/snapshot: Cloud-based backup systems often support versioning, allowing organizations to recover previous versions of files stored in the cloud. This feature is crucial for restoring data to a known-good state when ransomware has altered files.
- Geographic redundancy/sovereignty: Large organizations may store cloud backups in multiple geographic locations within the cloud infrastructure to mitigate the risk of data loss due to regional incidents or localized cyberattacks. It’s vital that your data protection provider offers regional data centers and that they guarantee no data transmission outside of your selected region.
- Regular testing: Cloud-based backup systems are regularly tested to ensure that they are functioning as expected. This involves not only verifying the backup process but also performing restoration tests to confirm that cloud data can be successfully recovered.
- Monitoring and alerts: Continuous monitoring of cloud backup systems and alerts for suspicious activities are set up. Any unusual access or data modification triggers alerts that can be addressed promptly.
- “Offsite storage” in the cloud: Backups are often stored offsite in cloud services. This protects cloud data in the event of on-premises disasters, such as fires or floods. But in cloud storage, having backup data outside of the production environment is key: Read more about this in the 3-2-1 backup rule blog.
By implementing these protective measures, organizations can maintain the security and availability of their cloud-based backup data, reducing the risk of data loss due to ransomware and other potential threats and thereby strengthening cyber resilience.
As organizations have become aware of the vulnerabilities in their data protection processes for backup and recovery, many are taking extra precautions to safeguard their backup copies, which are crucial for recovery in case of a crisis.
Let’s look at the percentage of organizations taking additional measures to protect their backup copiesâ:
As awareness grows of the vulnerabilities and data protection best practices, it’s unfortunately only 40% of organizations that are making extra efforts to protect all their backup copies. This gap in data protection is highlighted in the finding that after a ransomware attack, not all data can be recovered.
The amount of data organizations were able to recover after a ransomware attack:
The numbers show that there is still a lot to be done to prepare for the ransomware threat. To continue learning about what to do to improve your cyber resiliency and avoid being ransomed, watch our expert-led webinar on demand, originally airing live November 28. Together with industry experts from Enterprise Strategy Group, we will be sharing even more insights and discussing best practices and data protection strategies that effectively combat the threat of ransomware.
This post is part one of a five-part series on the role backups play in the protection against ransomware, so check back soon to catch the next installment, which will cover the importance of air gapping in data protection.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/why-healthcare-organizations-ransomware/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:30:46+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Why healthcare organizations are vulnerable to attacks
And what they can do to thwart them
Statistically speaking, a ransomware attack can and will likely happen to your healthcare delivery organization (HDO), and if you don’t believe it, let these stats sink in for a minute:
- 66% of healthcare organizations were hit by ransomware in 2021 (Source: Sophos’ State of Ransomware in Healthcare 2022).
- 38% of attacks on healthcare—where the attack type is known—were ransomware (Source: IBM Security X-Force Threat Intelligence Index 2022).
- 19 days: the average length of a ransomware incident (Source: United States Department of Health and Human Services).
To make matters worse, the impact is felt throughout the entire organization when a ransomware disruption happens. The 2021 HIMSS Healthcare Cybersecurity Survey reported that the most significant security incidents caused disruption to:
- Systems/devices impacting business operations (32% of survey respondents);
- IT Operations (26% of respondents);
- Systems/devices impacting clinical care (21% of respondents).
5 reasons why HDOs are vulnerable to ransomware attacks
Other than the goldmine of valuable data and enormous leverage gained by shutting down critical services (and potentially lifesaving), here are five main reasons why ransomware gangs target healthcare organizations:
1. Comparatively weak defenses
HDOs are focused on providing healthcare services and rarely have the dedicated budget to build and maintain a solid cybersecurity position.
2. Lack of cybersecurity specialists
There’s a reason why the world’s largest enterprises either have staff-dedicated security teams or work closely with third-party specialists. Security is a specialized field, and HDOs typically lack the same resources – or their experts are already overburdened.
3. An ever-expanding attack surface
The IT environment within most HDOs is a complex and expanding mix of legacy systems, traditional on-premises equipment, specialized devices, and hybrid clouds, creating plenty of opportunity for attackers to find and exploit vulnerabilities to gain entry, establish persistence, and escalate their intrusions.
4. A large employee base
Many—if not most—ransomware attacks begin with a successful phishing email. Phishing campaigns that target HDO employees are executed with skill, and it only takes one mistake from one employee to bypass defenses.
5. Poor detection, response, and remediation capabilities
Security is a very specialized field, and many HDOs lack these skills in-house and haven’t proactively engaged third-party providers.
While backups aren’t intended to prevent ransomware attacks (and can’t prevent the attackers from publishing what they steal), they have been proven to mitigate the impact by minimizing service disruption, lowering costs, and ensuring business continuity and compliance. Read our healthcare continuity and compliance article,
The bottom line: The native backup features built into SaaS applications are woefully inadequate to support a disaster recovery process like the one needed after a ransomware detonation.
SaaS data protection is your responsibility. Period.
Backing up cloud SaaS data is the responsibility of the SaaS customer, not the vendor. This applies to all of your SaaS applications, including OneDrive, Teams, SharePoint, Exchange, Azure AD, Salesforce, Google Workspace, and practically any other service from any other vendor.
In its own cloud documentation, Microsoft’s “Division of Responsibility” states that all information and data fall under “responsibility always retained by the customer.” If you’re not convinced data loss could happen to you, ESG Research found that 81% of Microsoft 365 users had to recover data, and only 15% could recover 100% of their data.
While SaaS apps like M365 may provide recycle bins, your data is still at risk because these bins have limited storage durations and can be emptied or bypassed with hard deletes, rendering data unrecoverable. Some companies also attempt to replace backup with workarounds, such as litigation hold, but our blog post elaborates on why legal hold is not a reasonable replacement for backup.
Putting items on retention or legal hold can preserve data longer, but an e-discovery search to find missing or deleted data won’t allow you to do a direct restore. Additionally, the data you export may or may not be in a usable, restorable format.
In fact, in the Microsoft services agreement, Microsoft explicitly instructs customers to back up their data, which is directly in line with the shared responsibility model mentioned above:
We strive to keep the Services up and running; however, all online services suffer occasional disruptions and outages, and Microsoft is not liable for any disruption or loss you may suffer as a result. In the event of an outage, you may not be able to retrieve Your Content or Data that you’ve stored. We recommend you regularly backup Your Content and Data that you store on the Services or store using Third-Party Apps and Services.
Microsoft services agreement
Ransomware gangs are well organized and now targeting backups
Ransomware gangs aren’t dumb and don’t lack resources. While the perception may be that ransomware groups are a small team of backroom hackers, they actually operate like Fortune 500 enterprises. Their operations are funded by the proceeds of their crimes, and often supported by a shockingly well-developed ecosystem of specialized services, with some even enjoying the protection of nation states.
Because the potential financial rewards are so high, ransomware teams constantly evolve their tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs) to find new ways to get into IT environments, inflict maximum damage, and gain maximum leverage.
It was only a matter of time before ransomware operators began targeting backups, leading Microsoft to warn in its 2021 Digital Defense Report that “information disruptors and attackers aggressively search for backup facilities.”
For example, the Conti ransomware deletes Windows Volume Shadow Copies before encryption and disables 146 Windows services related to backup, security, and database capabilities.
The Conti gang and their affiliates also routinely employ multi-week dwell times as part of the strategy to maximize discovery and find and corrupt backups.
Not yet convinced? These TTPs are just part of why their ransom message confidently states: “As you know (if you don’t – just Google it), all the data that our software has encrypted cannot be recovered by any means without contacting our team directly.”
As a result of these ever-evolving tactics, the CISA Alert DarkSide Ransomware: Best Practices for Preventing Business Disruption from Ransomware Attacks recommends “ensuring that backups are implemented, regularly tested, and isolated from network connections.” What is true backup? Learn more about it from our blogpost.
5-factor business case for a dedicated SaaS backup and recovery solution
1. Fulfilling regulatory obligations
Third-party backup and recovery services help you:
- Stay compliant by ensuring your data remains immutable and tamperproof;
- Secure data and metadata;
- Document and recover not just all data but all data processing;
- Ensure auditors have full visibility of everything that has impacted the data.
2. Protecting organizational continuity
Keeping services operational is essential for maintaining the revenue that keeps an organization running—and having reliable backups that can be quickly restored is vital for returning to partial or complete service.
Sophos reported that 25% of healthcare organizations disrupted by ransomware took up to a month to restore operations.
3. When disaster strikes: Disaster recovery preparedness
Data outages in the real world are a matter of when, not if, making your ability to quickly recover essential data an important part of business continuity planning. Learn more in our disaster recovery guide.
4. Avoiding ransom payments
If you fear having to face ransom payment demands, consider these stats from Sophos:
- 61% of healthcare organizations disrupted by ransomware in 2021 paid the ransom. This statistic suggests that no matter how often the board or the finance team says, “We won’t pay the ransom,” there’s a better-than-even chance that when faced with a brutal reality of business disruption, they will pay.
- It turns out that paying the ransom isn’t even a guarantee that services will be fully restored. Even ignoring buggy ransomware decryptors (unfortunately a real thing), Sophos’ investigations revealed, “On average, in 2021, healthcare organizations that paid the ransom got back only 65% of their data.”
- And if you’re feeling lucky, the Sophos report noted, “Only 2% of those that paid the ransom in 2021 got ALL their data back.”
That’s a poor return for ransoms that typically range from USD 1M to $25M USD.
Those high ransom amounts also mean that even if the business case is made entirely on ransom avoidance, it’s a good bet that a dedicated SaaS backup solution will pay for itself in costs alone the very first data loss incident—not to mention the guaranteed access to and quality of data returned alongside the ease-of-use third-party backup software solutions offer.
Furthermore, as the United States government focuses more on ransomware and its criminal enterprises, paying a ransom may even violate federal laws.
5. Filling cyber insurance gaps and meeting coverage requirements
If you have cyber insurance, you may be wondering if you’re protected from having to pay ransom payments. The reality is that you probably aren’t.
- A 2021 research report by MDR provider eSentire found that only 60% of security professionals whose organizations have cyber insurance indicated that their insurer covers the cost of lost business.
- In “The Long Road Ahead to Ransomware Preparedness,” ESG Research reported that only 66% of organizations with cyber insurance were covered for ransoms.
Cyber insurance is — at best — a poor solution and having dedicated backups can help lower premiums and protect against areas not covered by insurance policies. We are already seeing a trend where coverage mandates backup.
Ultimately, as mentioned above, paying the ransom does not guarantee your organization will be able to recover data and metadata with great enough fidelity to put you back into operation.
How to mitigate the impact: Cloud SaaS data backup
When it comes to a data backup solution to circumvent ransom payments, you simply cannot afford not to protect yourself.
There is no shortage of cases where companies pay the ransom and get “data” back, but these companies paying the ransom don’t ever know what condition that data will be in. The way to ensure that your data is safeguarded is to back it up with third-party backup.
SaaS applications and cloud technology have made everyone’s lives easier, however, assuming data in the cloud is safe by default is a cautionary tale in the making and is an assumption that you are likely to regret.
What to do about ransomware: Test your SaaS data risk and protection readiness
Completing the following short assessment will help you better understand your SaaS data risk and protection readiness. Simply note a 'yes' or 'no' in response to the following statements.
Data risk assessment:
- We have strong IT defenses in place, including endpoint, cloud, and network protection and robust logging.
- We have a Security Operations (SecOps) team, Managed Detection and Response (MDR) service, or a similar real-time security function to contain threats that bypass our defenses.
- We understand our threat surface, including legacy systems and hybrid IT environments.
- We have a robust vulnerability discovery and management program.
- All our employees undergo regular, healthcare domain-specific Phishing and Security Awareness Training (PSAT).
SaaS Data Protection Readiness:
- We have a backup and recovery solution in place for our M365 application data beyond the limited functionality included within M365.
- We can access our data 24/7, even if primary systems are unavailable.
- We have a retention policy in place and regularly verify that the procedure is followed.
- We comply with HIPAA and other regulatory requirements that apply to our region.
- We have tested our M365 restoration processes and are confident that we can fully restore any of our M365 data if it were to be lost.
- We are satisfied with the time it takes to restore data, whether we need to restore a specific file or perform a full disaster recovery.
- We are satisfied with the time it takes to offboard employees.
- We stopped paying SaaS licensing for departed employees.
- We can remotely monitor the status of our SaaS applications’ backups.
- We can easily get an overview of the total body of data backed up from our SaaS applications.
- We are satisfied with the number of resources we apply to backup and related IT tasks.
- We understand that cybercrime operators target healthcare delivery organizations and their TTPs target backups.
For both risk and protection readiness, add up the number of times you answered “No.
- If you scored 2 out of 5 or higher on the Data Risk Assessment, your SaaS data is at high risk.
- If you scored 3 out of 12 or higher on the SaaS Data Protection Readiness, then it is likely you will encounter serious problems recovering data in the event of a disruption.
To learn more about healthcare organizations and how to secure data in the cloud, access the comprehensive (and complimentary) Keepit healthcare eBook here.
If you're interested in learning more about Keepit's backup and recovery solution for protecting and managing cloud SaaS data, continue to Keepit services page.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/why-keepit-for-msp/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:12:58+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Why Keepit for managed service providers (MSPs)
Empowering MSPs with Keepit's enhanced partner network
Keepit is on an amazing growth trajectory, leading the way in SaaS data protection with the only vendor-independent data protection cloud. As we drive forward on our substantial expansion strategy, we’re focusing in on our partner-only strategy, ensuring everything we’re working on is with partners in mind.
We know MSPs (managed service providers) want to elevate their services, drive success, and get the edge in the market so that they can fill critical needs of their customers in terms of data protection in SaaS applications. That’s why we at Keepit make adoption and integration of the Keepit platform extremely simple. We're committed to empowering MSPs through our new partner network and with a partner-only strategy so that our customers receive the best services on the market.
Here’s how we’ll transform the future of data protection together.
Keepit’s solution allows us to easily administer many customers, making our job easy all while ensuring a great customer journey.
Anders Kaag
CTO of IT Relation
Seamless integration for enhanced value
Our goal is simple: To provide you with the tools you need in a simple platform that provides powerful data protection and is easy to onboard and use. Onboarding Keepit is so simple that you’ll be using it in only a few clicks. That's because with our newly revamped MSP track in our channel program, we make it easier than ever for MSPs to incorporate a new tool into their toolbox.
With Keepit, you’ll:
- Get a low barrier of entry to onboard Keepit.
- Radically change your offerings and level of service to your customers.
- Leverage a single dashboard with multiple applications protected (Microsoft 365, Entra ID, Salesforce, Google Workspace, and other services).
- Increase efficiency: Easy on time and staff hours.
- Be compliant ready for NIS2, HIPAA, GDPR, and others.
- Get follow-the-sun customer and partner support.
Giving partners the edge with next-level data protection
As MSPs navigate the demands of protecting business-critical SaaS data for customers, finding the right partner makes a world of difference. Enter the Keepit Partner Network, a game changer in empowering MSPs to deliver top-tier services.
Here are some key benefits that make Keepit stand out as a top choice for MSPs:
- Easy integration: Integrating Keepit into your existing systems is easy with our API-only architecture.
- Flexibility: Work with Keepit on term contracts for one, two, or three years, or on a consumption mode and get billed monthly. The choice is yours.
- Simplicity: Our cloud-native solution's ease of use saves you valuable time and effort by simplifying the process of configuring backups and restoring data with just a few clicks.
- Retained gross profit: Not only do MSPs get to increase their gross profit, but they’re assured of retaining it.
- Dedicated cloud infrastructure: Our purpose-built, independent cloud infrastructure ensures maximum security, reliability, and compliance for your clients' data, giving you peace of mind knowing their data is protected.
- Data immutability: With Keepit, your clients' data remains immutable and tamperproof, protecting it from ransomware attacks and ensuring data integrity at all times, safeguarding against any malice, mistakes, or misconfigurations.
- Prioritized data recovery: Our granular, prioritized, and fast recovery options give swift restoration of critical data after data loss events (like ransomware), thereby minimizing downtime and ensuring business continuity.
- Industry recognition: Keepit is consistently recognized as a leader in SaaS data protection by industry analysts. Most recently, Canalys included us in their Managed BDR Leadership Matrix as a Scaler, showing our rapid growth and outstanding performance with a new program.
Moving from a partner-first to partner-only strategy
Keepit’s success comes from our resilient solution and purpose-built cloud infrastructure — and our many long-lasting partner relationships. We believe in the power of partnerships, so we’ve adopted a partner-only approach so that our partners get everything they need to provide the best services to their customers.
We're committed to taking your business to new heights, because we’re more successful together. With new investments in marketing, channel, and an enhanced Partner Program, we're ensuring that MSPs receive the support and resources they need to thrive in a competitive market with the best tool on the market: Keepit!
Prioritizing user experience and effectiveness
We understand that one of your main concerns is providing exceptional service to your clients. With Keepit, you can do just that. Our platform is designed to be easy to use, empowering you to boost the effectiveness of your employees and bring your customer experience to new levels. With features like shareable links and powerfully broad backup capabilities, Keepit gives you the edge you need to get ahead.
Ready to take your data protection to the next level?
Now is the time to take your MSP business to new heights on a mutual journey of innovation, support, and success. To learn more, join our webinar on MSP trends and opportunities in SaaS data protection. including ransomware and cybersecurity, led by Canalys expert Robin Ody and Keepit's Regional VP of Channel, EMEA, Cyril VanAgt. The webinar will provide valuable insights and strategic approaches to help you succeed in the competitive world of MSPs.
Already motivated to be a Keepit partner?

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/why-keepit-for-resellers/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:13:01+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Empowering resellers: SaaS data protection with Keepit
As businesses increasingly rely on cloud-based applications and services to drive productivity and innovation, the need to safeguard sensitive data against cyber threats and unexpected data loss is clear — not least of all due to increased compliance requirements globally such as NIS2, SEC, and GDPR.
Partnering with Keepit means always being at the forefront of cloud SaaS data protection.
Anders Kaag
CMO of ITM8, Denmark
In joining Keepit’s newly enhanced Partner Network with a partner-only focus, value-added resellers (VARs) can empower their clients with industry-leading cloud data protection, ensuring the safety and integrity of their critical business data.
In this blog, we’ll explore why Keepit is not only the ideal partner but also the best solution on the market for resellers looking for the opportunity to elevate their services, increase profitability, and stand out from the competition with Keepit’s leading cloud data protection solution.
"We are pleased to continue our partnership with Keepit and to join their new KPN partner program. The team we collaborate with is extremely responsive and always on hand to assist with any of our queries. The new program recognizes our efforts in terms of skills and commercial success and will accelerate our development and growth in the coming years in the field of SaaS data protection."
Nicola Gargett
Partner Program Manager
Phoenix Software Ltd., UK
Top 3 reasons to join the VAR track of the Keepit Partner Network
Here's why the Keepit Partner Network is a great opportunity for resellers wanting to support their clients:
1. Increased gross profit and recurring revenue:
Keepit offers resellers the chance to quickly boost their gross profit and establish a long-term recurring revenue stream, all without the burden of operational expenses. By partnering with Keepit, resellers can retain their gross profit, fuel their growth, and protect their margins with a partner-only go-to-market strategy.
2. Partner-friendly tools and support:
Keepit is easy to work with and easy to price. Managing customers’ accounts is made simple with Keepit's ready-to-use Partner Management Console or seamless integration options with favorite systems using APIs. This allows resellers to stay aligned with the buyer's journey.
3. Be a hero for your customers:
With Keepit, resellers can be heroes for their customers by offering a fast and easy-to-implement solution. Whether it's providing fast provisioning or one-click restore capabilities, Keepit enables resellers to deliver exceptional value to their clients. Differentiate from the competition by offering the most comprehensive SaaS data backup coverage on the market.
We don’t compete with Keepit, we succeed together. An equal partnership was the goal from the very beginning.
Henning Malmin
CTO of Upheads, Norway
The Keepit difference for customers and partners
Keepit doesn't just offer benefits for resellers; we also provide unparalleled advantages for customers and partners alike. Many of Keepit's partners have a hybrid business model, acting as both Managed Service Providers (MSPs) and value-added resellers (VARs). Keepit's solutions are flexible enough to support both models, allowing resellers to seamlessly integrate SaaS data protection into their managed services practices.
What makes Keepit the best SaaS data protection for partners and customers
From our dedicated, purpose-built independent cloud to our native data immutability and compliance-ready architecture, Keepit ensures that both partners and their customers receive top-notch service and protection with the broadest SaaS applications protection available, including Microsoft 365, Entra ID (Azure AD), Salesforce, and more.
Here's why Keepit is the leading solution for resellers wanting to best support their clients on their data protection journey:
- Independent cloud:
Keepit owns and operates a dedicated, purpose-built independent cloud infrastructure, ensuring maximum security, reliability, and compliance for partners and their customers' data.
- Built in the cloud, for the cloud:
The Keepit solution is designed and optimized specifically for the cloud environment, storing data logically and physically separate from the SaaS vendor. It provides seamless integration and performance for SaaS data protection without any of the issues or inefficiencies found in solutions with legacy bolt-on systems.
- Multiple data centers with fully load-balanced redundancy:
We ensure data availability and data resiliency 24/7 with dual data centers per data region of choice, featuring fully load-balanced redundancy and air-gapped data storage. This maximizes data protection and data availability, supporting business continuity goals.
- Native, built-in data immutability:
Keepit's platform incorporates native data immutability, safeguarding data from unauthorized alterations or deletions and providing assurance of data integrity through blockchain-like encryption. Data remains tamper proof, always.
- Transparent, predictable, all-inclusive pricing:
Keepit operates on a transparent pricing model with no hidden fees. This makes it easy for partners and their customers to budget and plan effectively.
- Simple tool onboarding process:
Keepit's intuitive setup process and automated features allow for easy implementation and management, with no training needed. This frees up time and resources for partners to focus on other aspects of their business.
- Granular restore functionality:
We simplify data recovery with granular, one-click restore functionality. This enables partners and customers to swiftly recover critical data in place in the event of data loss or disruptions, prioritizing business-critical data to minimize impact.
- Recognized industry leadership:
Keepit is consistently recognized as a leader in SaaS data protection by industry analysts. This demonstrates our commitment to delivering top-tier solutions and services.
- GDPR compliance and data privacy:
With no sub-processors, Keepit prioritizes compliance, ensuring that partners and their customers' data is handled with the highest level of sensitivity and adherence to regulations. This includes support for GDPR right to be forgotten (RTBF).
Differentiate, diversify, and grow with Keepit
Don't settle for selling the same solutions as everyone else in the market. With Keepit, resellers can differentiate themselves, diversify their offerings, and accelerate their growth in the field of SaaS data protection.
Keepit offers resellers the perfect combination of partner-friendly tools, unparalleled support, and innovative solutions to succeed in today's competitive landscape. Ready to elevate your reselling business with Keepit's leading cloud data protection solution? Join the Keepit Partner Network today and unlock exclusive benefits, unparalleled support, and innovative solutions to drive growth and success.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/why-m365-backup-isnt-enough-entra-id/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:50:20+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Why do I need Azure AD backup? Isnât Microsoft 365 backup enough?
VideoJuly 11, 2023By Paul Robichaux
In this exclusive video, Paul Robichaux, Microsoft MVP and Sr. Director of Product at Keepit, unravels the indispensable connection between Azure AD and Microsoft 365, and shares why a data protection plan must include backup of Entra ID (Azure AD).
Learn why safeguarding Azure AD (Entra ID) data is essential for seamless productivity and continuous compliance. Discover the solution: Secure your Azure AD with backup and recovery.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/why-m365-data-backup-for-healthcare-organizations/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:30:46+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Why Microsoft 365 backup for healthcare organizations
It’s easy to get a false sense of security and assume that your Microsoft 365 data is safe and secure because M365 automatically backs up your SaaS data for simple recovery, right?
Well, not so fast.
While M365 and most other SaaS platforms offer some sort of data protection and recovery features, it’s bare bones at best. For healthcare organizations, this opens Pandora’s box for compliance and continuity issues that can end up costing hundreds of thousands of dollars in fines. And on top of that, add the inability to serve patients and conduct daily business.
It's critical to have timely and secure access to patients’ highly sensitive personally identifiable information (PII), protected health information (PHI), financial information, intellectual property, and credentials. However, given how this information has grown exponentially, data loss prevention has never been more necessary to ensure business continuity.
It’s crucial to understand that retention requirements far exceed what SaaS applications typically deliver natively, making it vital to close the gap with a reliable backup and recovery tool.
For healthcare organizations, compliance and continuity are the two main factors driving the need for third-party SaaS backup.
Regulatory compliance
The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) makes healthcare delivery organizations legally obligated to preserve certain types of information for periods that exceed a SaaS service’s built-in capabilities.
As the HIPAA Journal explains, each state has its own laws governing the retention of patients’ medical records. To complicate things further, those retention periods can vary considerably. 50 states with 50 retention requirements: Is this something your healthcare organization wants to (or can afford to) manage?
Individual U.S. state laws govern the retention of patients’ medical records, while HIPAA imposes requirements on how long HIPAA-related documents must be retained.
According to the HIPAA Journal, “In Florida, physicians must maintain medical records for five years after the last patient contact, whereas hospitals must retain them for seven years. In North Carolina, hospitals must maintain patients’ records for 11 years from the date of discharge, and records relating to minors must be retained until the patient has reached 30 years of age.”
The hard truth is that SaaS services do not deliver the level of backup and recovery required for healthcare organizations, and what they do provide isn’t seamless.
Business continuity
Imagine the worst-case scenario where your mission-critical data is suddenly gone—it’s not hard to imagine since it happens to companies every day. Healthcare organizations rely on the information stored in SaaS systems to maintain their business continuity. If the information suddenly becomes unavailable, then significant disruption results.
Continuity considerations
Things can (and do) go wrong with SaaS data: a simple misconfiguration can cause primary data sources to become unavailable, making accidental deletion a real risk, which may not be discovered until it’s too late to recover from the SaaS app – and may be unrecoverable even if you do find it quickly.
In fact, according to ESG Research, the most common reasons for data loss are service outages and accidental deletion, as seen here:
Still, accidents, misconfigurations, and other ‘innocent’ causes aren’t the only ways to lose data.
In recent years, ransomware gangs have set their sights on the healthcare sector and, unfortunately, have been successful in their efforts to disrupt and demand payment for the data’s return.
Fulfilling regulatory obligations
Few people like being told what to do, but it turns out that governments do have the authority to compel action.
In the U.S., federal and state laws impose strict requirements around data retention for different healthcare records and information types. Additionally, regulations are subject to change, adding more pressure to comply to avoid a regulatory audit and heavy fines. Failure to comply can lead to significant financial and legal exposure, such as lawsuits, fines, settlements, and certification losses, further increasing the risk of data breaches.
For Healthcare delivery organizations (HDOs) committed to minimizing or avoiding these risks, having a proper backup and recovery practice in place is key to compliance.
Third-party backup and recovery services help you stay compliant by ensuring your data remains immutable and tamperproof. Immutable data and metadata make it possible for you to document and recover not just all data but all data processing, ensuring that auditors have complete visibility of everything that has impacted the data.
If complying with laws (and avoiding potentially hefty fines) isn’t enough to secure the budget, there are other reasons to invest in SaaS backup, such as mitigating downtime and costs.
Protecting business continuity
In a presentation titled “Conti Ransomware and the Healthcare Sector,” the United States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) relayed that:
- the average length of a general ransomware incident is 19 days.
Cybersecurity provider Sophos reported that 25% of healthcare organizations disrupted by ransomware took up to a month to restore operations. Sophos' research also suggests that:
- the average remediation cost for healthcare organizations soared to USD 1.85M in 2021 (up from USD 1.27M in 2020).
Keeping services operational is essential for maintaining the revenue that sustains an organization. That’s why having reliable backups that can quickly and easily be restored is paramount.
Unfortunately, the reality is that data outages are a matter of when, not if, making your ability to recover key data (and fast!) a necessary part of business continuity planning. Additionally, the shorter the outage, the lower the recovery and remediation costs, making loss avoidance a compelling part of the value proposition.
Recovery processes and costs can also include Digital Forensics and Incident Response (DFIR) activities, whether mandated by cyber insurance coverage, necessary for root cause analysis, driven by a motivation to prosecute, or some other reason.
Third-party backups assist DFIR activities by providing trustworthy information that extends further back in time than what can be pulled from SaaS applications.
But being able to restore services quickly from a dedicated SaaS backup doesn’t just protect revenue and minimize recovery costs, it also means you avoid paying the ransom and lower your cyber insurance fees.
How to protect your SaaS data today
If you can recognize some of the data backup and recovery vulnerabilities discussed here within your own healthcare organization, the good news is that it’s easy and cost effective to address those challenges and help secure your organization’s data.
Unintentional and malicious data losses don’t offer the convenience of a “heads up,” so it’s a wise business decision to have a proper backup and recovery solution in place before you need it – and as such, it should be an integral part of your cybersecurity approach. Only backup allows you to go back in time and recover to before bad things happened!
If you’d like to learn more about compliance and continuity for healthcare organizations, access the Keepit healthcare eBook here.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/why-on-prem-for-azure-active-directory-is-not-enough/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:41:06+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Why backing up Azure AD (Entra ID) in the cloud is essential
Why should you back up Azure Active Directory (Entra ID) in the cloud?
Imagine a busy city with multiple roads leading to various destinations, such as a hospital, a shopping mall, and a stadium. Just like a traffic light controlling the flow of vehicles to and from these destinations, Active Directory (AD) and Azure Active Directory (AAD) control the flow of and access to information from apps and services such as Microsoft 365, Salesforce, Google Workspace, and others. Organizations rely heavily on AD and AAD to ensure a smooth flow of and access to their data.
However, just like how a city can experience traffic jams, frustrations, accidents, and general chaos when the traffic light is out, when AD or AAD are not accessible, the flow of and access to control-plane information can cause severe business disruption. This post will explore the importance of data protection for Azure AD.
The evolution of identity management: From Active Directory to Azure AD and the need for different backup solutions
But first, how did we come to rely so heavily on AD and AAD? Active Directory was introduced in 1999 as a solution for on-premises identity management, providing a centralized repository for user and device information and allowing administrators to manage these resources effectively and efficiently.
As the use of cloud-based services grew, the need for an identity management solution that could integrate with cloud-based resources became more important.
This led to the creation of Azure Active Directory, which was designed to serve as the bridge between on-premises and cloud resources, not only creating a seamless and secure identity management solution for cloud computing, but also offering a range of features and capabilities (including single sign on, multi-factor authentication, and conditional access) to help organizations meet their security and compliance requirements.
Microsoft Azure Active Directory and Active Directory seem to be a bit shrouded in mystery. For many, the distinction between them is not always clear, and this distinction becomes even more blurred when it comes to the topic of backing up and protecting the data within each.
Instead of covering all the differences between AD and Azure AD, this post will mainly focus on backup for Azure AD, and it will explore five ways in which AAD requires a different backup solution from the traditional backups used for on-premises AD. Before we can do that though, we need to quickly establish — roughly — what the difference is.
What’s the difference between AD and AAD?
As Stephen Covey put it, “the main thing is to keep the main thing the main thing.” That quote might make more sense if you consider the key difference between cloud and on-prem AD to be the main thing… and in this case, the main difference between the two is that Active Directory is designed for managing user access and application infrastructure for an on-premises world; Azure Active Directory is for managing user access to cloud applications in a cloud-based environment.
Even more simply? Sure: AD is on prem, AAD is cloud based.
If you’re interested in exploring the differences further, here’s what Microsoft has to say: Compare Active Directory to Azure Active Directory.
Every object in either AD or Azure AD has one permanent home. That’s the primary copy of the object, and the copy to which changes are applied. If you are on-prem-only, or cloud-only, then there’s only one copy of each object.
In hybrid mode, though, no matter where the object is homed, there will be two copies of it: the primary copy and a synchronized copy on the “other side.”
For organizations using both Active Directory and Azure AD in a hybrid environment, you can think of the cloud copy of an on-prem object as being like a shadow. When you look at a shadow on the pavement, you’re only getting a partial set of information about the real object.
In the same vein, Azure AD only has a partial set of attributes from on-premises AD objects because not every object attribute is replicated to the cloud. However, all the attributes of cloud-based Azure AD objects are stored in full in the cloud. This allows organizations to use Azure AD as an identity provider for on-premises resources and allows for SSO for cloud-based resources.
How does this distinction change backup strategy?
The distinction of where (which environment) your identity objects are homed is paramount. Active Directory backup via on-premises solutions is exactly that: making a backup of on-prem data by copying it to/from an on-premises solution. Azure Active Directory, as a cloud-based application utilizing cloud-based data (and metadata), creates and manages cloud data in the cloud.
Why it matters: Comprehensive data coverage requires the ‘right’ backup
“Some” Azure AD data and metadata only exist in the cloud environment. You could copy these objects to an on-prem storage location (which is roughly as useful as putting backup tapes on top of the server they’re made from), but these objects must be restored to the cloud.
Therefore, with clear gaps in coverage, the data and metadata are not covered holistically. This means your data may not be fully protected when you back up your cloud data with an on-premises Active Directory-oriented tool as your Azure AD backup solution.
In other words: what’s homed on premises and what’s homed in the cloud are physically separate. You introduce new problems for yourself when you cross the streams, including speed of access, data fidelity and quality, and security.
Let’s dive into five reasons why on-prem AD backup is not a viable option for comprehensive backup of Azure AD.
5 things you should consider if you’re backing up AAD on premises
1. Some attributes in Azure Active Directory are not available on premises
If you take an on-prem AD account and sync it to the cloud, the sync process (and Azure AD) adds some attributes to it. Some of these may be synced back to on prem (a process called writeback) but some will not. Backing up Azure AD captures these; backing up the on-prem AD won’t.
2. Azure AD may have user objects or attributes that do not exist on premises
You can define your own users, groups, roles, et cetera, that exist only in the cloud. If you do not back these up independently, they will not be preserved nor well protected, and your only recourse is to recreate and define these custom entries every time.
And yet not everyone sees the value in protecting these objects when their identity management (IdM) anchor is on prem. Even if an organization's IdM anchor is on premises, objects and attributes like Intune and conditional access policies are important for several reasons, often forming a key part of organizations’ zero trust security, and, as such, need to be protected against loss or damage. (Read our article on the zero trust principle here.)
Still not convinced of the value of protecting control-plane objects? Here are five reasons highlighting the case for securing data protection:
- Cloud-based management: Intune and Azure AD conditional access are both cloud-based services that can be accessed and managed from anywhere. They cannot be accessed from on-prem systems, so if you lose the copy in the cloud, it’s gone.
- Security: Azure AD provides additional layers of security, such as multi-factor authentication and identity protection, that can help to protect against potential security threats such as compromised credentials or unauthorized access.
- Compliance: Intune and conditional access can help organizations meet compliance requirements, such as HIPAA by providing features such as device compliance and role-based access control.
- Scalability: Azure AD allows organizations to scale their IdM infrastructure as needed, without the need for additional hardware or software.
- Remote work: Intune and conditional access can help organizations to secure and manage remote workers' devices, even if they are not connected to the on-premises network.
Now are these objects and attributes vital to operations? You can decide for yourself. But, considering the impact that could result from losing these in one data loss scenario or another (and the resource investment required to manually recreate and administer them, not to mention the security concerns of not ensuring the right users have the permissions to access company data), adequate data protection of these should be a business imperative.
3. Azure AD will have configuration/state objects that don’t exist on prem
Enterprise apps, app registrations, Conditional Access (CA) policies, and many other policy- and security-related objects exist only in the cloud. Microsoft's native protection for these objects is mostly non-existent — delete a conditional access policy, for example, and it’s just gone. Let’s drill down into two important-to-protect Azure AD features:
- Conditional Access: Azure AD Conditional Access is a feature that allows you to set policies that determine how users are granted access to resources based on conditions such as device compliance, location, and user identity. It allows you to control who can access your resources and under which conditions. This feature can be used to protect against security threats, such as compromised credentials, by requiring multi-factor authentication or other forms of authentication.
- Intune: Intune is a mobile device management (MDM) and mobile application management (MAM) service that is integrated with Azure AD. This feature allows you to manage and secure mobile devices, desktops, and apps, including those used by remote workers. It allows you to set policies for devices and apps, such as requiring a passcode or encrypting data, and to remotely wipe a device if it is lost or stolen.
What about the Active Directory Recycle Bin? As these AAD-only configurations/state objects only exist in the cloud, there’s no available recycle bin for these policy objects, so there’s no undo. It’s akin to an immediate hard delete, meaning there is no 30-day or 90-day grace period as there is with soft deletions.
How to recover from hard deletion? Microsoft shares that “hard-deleted items must be re-created and reconfigured. It’s best to avoid unwanted hard deletions.”
Let that sink in for a moment: “It’s best to avoid unwanted hard deletions.” This advice is nigh impossible to follow as common data loss scenarios, like accidental deletions), are a question of when, not if. It highlights how the Recycle Bin was never intended to be a replacement for dedicated backup. Read our post on why backup is a risk-management imperative here.
4. Record preservation
How long does Azure AD store reporting data? That’s a very good question: According to Microsoft, activity reports are stored as follows:
As you can see, there is no point-in-time record preservation. With a backup, you can preserve and review cloud-only Azure AD data at a specific point in time and examine which permissions, users, groups, and role assignments existed in your directory, as well as whether an object has changed within a specified time period and preserve these records for as long as required or needed to comply with company or governmental policies.
Clearly, these benefits are useful for forensic purposes but also for governance and compliance reasons. Learn more in our eDiscovery post (with a customer Office 365 use case).
5. Microsoft doesn’t provide native protection for many cloud-only objects
Microsoft doesn't provide the same recovery tools in Azure AD as they do for Active Directory itself. According to Microsoft recoverability best practices, it’s clearly important to understand the object types that are protected by Microsoft under soft-deletion and hard-deletion scenarios, visualized here:
The recovery features for soft deletions are typically limited to 30 days retention, so if you want to recover on day 31, it’s too late! The data is gone, as Microsoft shares here in its Azure Active Directory fundamentals:
Soft-deleted objects are hard deleted after a deletion time of 30 days. The only object types that support a soft delete are Users, Microsoft 365 Groups, Application registration, Service principal, administrative unit.
So, the question is this: Are these objects that are automatically hard deleted important to your business operations? And a natural follow-up question is this: Is the 30-day restore period for soft-deleted objects enough protection for your data? (Often, mandatory minimum data retention periods are determined by governments.)
Note: It’s important to mention that changes are not covered by the recycling bin, such as editing or overwriting, even to objects that would normally be soft deleted . Any change, intentional or otherwise, replaces the previous version with no option of reverting or recovering. When these changes are done accidentally, we euphemistically refer to them as an “oops,” but they are quite serious and actually one of the leading causes of data loss, so this gap in coverage should concern those tasked with ensuring data protection.
The writing on the wall is that native coverage is insufficient for recoverable, comprehensive coverage and that the solution to this coverage gap is having your own third-party backup. This extends your ability to recover these objects for as long as your backup exists.
Explore this in more depth here: Azure Active Directory recoverability best practices from Microsoft.
What’s next? Choosing a backup solution for Azure Active Directory
Now that we’ve highlighted the need for dedicated cloud data backup for Azure AD, let’s explore what Keepit provides with its Azure AD service offerings (one of which — Azure AD Standard — is offered completely free of charge).
Leading AAD data protection for your cloud security strategy
Keepit helps you recover business-critical identity and application objects that Microsoft doesn't protect. Extend your retention period and strengthen security with protection of policies as well as full auditing and traceability of changes. Protect against day-to-day data loss and improve IT efficiencies with the ability to roll back changes and speed up troubleshooting.
Azure Active Directory backup coverage
The Azure AD connector protects the following Microsoft 365 Azure Active Directory objects: Users, Groups, Administrative Units, and Roles. It also protects Audit logs (and Sign-in logs with audit logs enabled).
For an exhaustive coverage list, visit our AAD support site here.
Interested in backing up (and restoring) AAD with Keepit for Azure AD?
To learn more about how you can protect your business-critical data and ensure disaster recovery resolve with Keepit for Azure AD – the leading protection for your cloud security strategy – visit service page.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/why-ransomware-recovery-is-hard/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:41:09+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Why ransomware recovery is hard
More than the restore: Why ransomware recovery is hard
Many discussions about ransomware recovery focus on getting critical data back where it belongs. While this is absolutely necessary, it’s not always sufficient to allow full resumption of business-as-usual—the actual goal of disaster recovery.
In this session, we’ll discuss the key lessons we’ve learned as a SaaS data protection company about the holistic requirements for resuming normal operations after a large-scale attack or disaster, including restoration, remediation, retraining, and retrospection.
Backups are critical. We all know this is true—not just in an obvious “water is wet” way, but in a more serious “if you don’t drink enough water, you will die” way. At the same time, having a reliable backup system to capture your data and the ability to restore the right data in the right place at the right time is only part of what modern enterprises need.
Restoring data is not the same thing as recovering operations. Restoration is the first step along that path, but not the only one. You can sum this argument up with a single phrase: “restoring data is necessary but not sufficient by itself.”
Before you restore…
Re-read the first sentence above. Before we can proceed with talking about what else a full restoration will take besides just clicking the “restore” icon, I’m going to assume that you have a complete, valid, tested backup of your most important data. (And if you don’t, click here to learn how Keepit can get you there!)
What you get when you restore
OK, now you’re all set, right? You’ve got a known-good backup, and you’ve tested your restore procedures. You’re comfortable with the software, you’ve ensured that everyone who needs to conduct restores has the correct permissions, and so on. If not, you probably at least know what areas of improvement you need to focus on (and quickly)!
The next step in the process is understanding exactly what you get when you execute a restore, assuming that it goes perfectly. This will obviously vary quite a bit depending on what you’re backing up in the first place. For example, there are certain Zendesk and Azure Active Directory objects that can be restored in place (that is, the restored object can overwrite the old one), but other objects will only be restored as new objects. Knowing exactly what a restore will give you, where it will go, and what, if any, manual steps might be required post-restore are all key parts of understanding the overall journey.
Now for the fun part
One crucial mistake we sometimes make when talking about restore planning is failing to think about, and plan for, what happens after the restore.
Resuming operations after a cyberattack involves many considerations that you may not have thought about during your restore planning, including the time required to install or reinstall patches and updates on users’ computers, the need to maintain an effective communications channel for your staff while your primary systems are being restored, and non-computer-related issues like making sure that you know where physical assets and people may have moved to during your outage.
There may be other unique considerations that apply to you, too. For example, in 2021, a large auto company suffered a cyberattack that prevented their dealers from ordering cars or parts—so once the company restored their systems, they had a lot of manual and unplanned work to clean up and reconcile their pending orders, update dealers with information on where their parts were, and so on.
None of that cleanup work could take place until the restore was complete and all the data they needed was present.
How to get started
The exact mechanics of how you go from “restore successful” to “we’re back in business” will vary according to many factors, including how large and/or complicated your organization is, how mature your operational processes are, how many additional regulatory requirements you have to deal with, and the nature of the problem from which you’re recovering.
There’s a huge continuum that covers the space from the simple (restoring a single critical file for one user) to the very complex (recovering operations after a large-scale disaster like a wildfire or hurricane).
Investigating, documenting, and practicing what your business needs to quickly get back to normal after the restore succeeds is perhaps the most important single thing you can do to protect your data and your business.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/why-shared-responsibility-is-the-way-external/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T02:24:08+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Cloud data: Shared responsibility and the importance of backup
Contributed article by Keepit’s own Niels van Ingen
Niels van Ingen, industry veteran and COO at Keepit, shares his perfective on why shared responsibility for cloud data backup and recovery is the only way forward. He says to look at Microsoft's own documentation, which states, “it's critical to understand the Shared Responsibility model and which security tasks are handled by the cloud provider and which tasks are handled by you.
For all cloud deployment types, you own your data and identities. You are responsible for protecting the security of your data and identities, on-premises resources, and the cloud components you control (which varies by service type).”
So, who is ultimately responsible for safeguarding cloud-based data? Surprisingly, this simple-sounding question is often overlooked until it's too late, which is why SaaS customers need to be proactive when it comes to protecting their own data.
Niels van Ingen
COO at Keepit
To dive into the full article on vmblog.com, click to learn “Why Shared Responsibility for Data Backup and Recovery Is the Only Way.”

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/why-web-service-written-in-c-plus-plus/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:20:09+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Surely nobody would write a web service in C++
A while back, one of my colleagues was hanging out in an online developer forum and some people there were starting up a good old-fashioned language war (the type of exchange where one person familiar with language A will announce its superiority over language B, with which the other person isn't familiar – not really a productive use of time when you think about it, but a popular pastime nonetheless).
During this debate, one developer confidently proclaims that "surely nobody would ever write a web service in C++," to which my colleague responds, "well that's exactly what we did here at Keepit." This prompted some questions, and this piece is an attempt to explain why we did what we did and to explain how this choice has been working out for us, given that this code base started life about 10 years ago.
To put things into perspective, it will be necessary to start with some minimal background information about this service we set out to build.
What is Keepit?
Keepit is a backup service in the cloud. We will store backup copies of your (cloud) data so that if—or when—your primary data is compromised for one reason or another (but most likely because of ransomware or account takeover via phishing), then you will still have complete daily copies of your data going back as many years as you want.
Years of data. This should make you think.
Several years ago, Microsoft claimed having 350 million seats on their 365 platform, which is one of the cloud platforms that we protect. Let's say we get just 10% of that market (we should get much more because we are by far the best solution out there, but let's be conservative for the sake of argument), that means we need to store all data for 35 million people (and that's just on one of these platforms - we protect several other platforms as well).
It doesn't end there: being backup, we copy all your changes, and we hold your old data, and that means when you clean up your primary storage and delete old documents, we keep the copy. Many customers want a year or three of retention, but we have customers who pay for 100 years of retention.
One hundred years. That means our great grandchildren will be fixing the bugs we put in our code today. This should make you think too.
Knowing the very high-level goals of our service, let's talk about requirements for such a thing.
Core system: storage
We knew from the get-go that we would be implementing a storage solution which would need to store a very large amount of data (as everything is moving to the cloud, let's say a few percent of all the world’s data) for a very long period of time (say a hundred years).
Now everyone in the storage business will talk about SSDs, NVMe, and other high-performance data storage technologies. None of this is relevant for large scale, affordable storage, however. Spinning disks is the name of the game and probably will be for at least another decade.
SSDs are getting the density, sure, but they are still not close to viable from a cost perspective. This means we will be writing all data to rotating magnetic media. When you write data to magnetic media, over the years, your media will demagnetize. That means, if we store a backup on a hard drive today, we probably can't read it back just ten years from now.
That means we need to regularly move all this data from system to system to keep the data "fresh." Talking about performance, large capacity hard drives today rotate at 7200rpm, exactly the same speed as back in 1992. Access time is dominated by the rotational latency, which means that this is really an aspect of computers that has been almost at a standstill for 30 years while everything else has become faster in every way. We knew we had to deal with this.
I should probably note here that yes, we are talking about running our software on actual physical computers - no public cloud for us. If you want to go big, don't do what the big players say you should do, do what the big players do. If public cloud was so great, Microsoft wouldn't have built their own to run 365 – they would have run it on AWS which was very well established long before Microsoft thought about building 365. This doesn't mean you can't prototype on public cloud of course.
To solve our core storage need, we designed a filesystem—basically, an object storage system optimized for storing very large-scale backup data. Clearly, we expect the implementation of this storage system to have a significant lifespan.
We may want to create a better implementation one day in the future when hardware has evolved far beyond what we can imagine today, but it is worth pointing out that the storage systems we use today are very similar in architecture to what they would look like 30 years ago, and I would assume in 30 years from today. Clearly, the core code that manages all of your data is not something you want to re-write every few weeks.
So, to implement this system, we went out looking for which new experimental languages had been invented in the six months leading up to implementation start. No wait, we didn't.
What we need from a language
There are really two types of languages:
1: Systems programming languages — those that have practically no runtime, where you can look at the code and have a high degree of confidence in understanding exactly what that leads to on your processor, the type of language you would write an operating system kernel in. This would be languages like C, C++, and who knows – maybe Rust or something else.
2: The higher-level languages, which often have significant runtimes. The good ones of these offer benefits that you cannot get in a language without a significant runtime. This would be a language like Common Lisp, but people more commonly talk about C# and Java even though I will argue they only do so because nobody taught them Lisp.
And then you have the other languages that fit various niche use cases. This could be Python, Haskell, JavaScript, and so forth. I don't mean to talk them down, but they are not reasonable languages for software development of the type we are talking about here; and since what we're talking about here isn't actually so special, you could take my argument to mean that they are just not very reasonable languages for software development outside of niche uses, and that would be a fair interpretation of my opinion.
The 5 things we really need from a programming language are:
1: It must support the efficient implementation of algorithms and data structures; meaning we must have tight control over memory when we need it, our language must support the actual hardware data types like 64-bit integers on modern processors, etc. So, this rules out Python (not compiled), Ruby (not compiled) and JavaScript (JIT but doesn't have integers or arrays).
2: When we write code today, the tool chain in 20 years’ time must still support our code with little or no changes. Because we simply can't rewrite our code every few years. We will get nowhere if that's what we do. That's why large, important software systems today are still often written in C - because they started out life in the 80s or 90s and they are still the most significant operating system kernels or database management systems that exist to this day.
Steady evolution is the recipe, not rewrite from scratch every three years. This basically rules out any language that hasn't been standardized and widely used for at least 10 years before we start the project. Meaning, since we started in 2012, that rules out any language that came out after 2002, so Go, Rust, and many other languages would have been out of the picture. C and C++ would work though.
3: We run on Linux. If you do anything significant with computers on a network, you probably run on Linux, too. We don't want a language that is "ported" to Linux as a curiosity - like C#. We need a language that is native on Linux with a significant and mature toolchain that is certain to receive significant investment for decades to come. Again, that's really C and C++.
4: You need to design for failure. Everything from writing to a disk, to allocating the smallest piece of memory, can and will eventually fail. Relying on the developer to check error codes or return values at every single call to a nontrivial function (and too many trivial functions too) is rough. Yes, it can be done and there are impressive examples of this.
I am humbled by software such as the Postgres database or the Linux kernel which are very reliable pieces of software written in C which require such tedious checking. C++, in my experience, with RAII and exceptions, offers a much safer alternative. It is not free, of course – it avoids one set of problems and introduces another. In my experience however, it is less difficult to write reliable software using RAII and exceptions than to rely on developers not missing a single potential error return and correct recovery and cleanup. For this reason, I will prefer C++ over C and over both Rust and Go.
5: Obviously the language must offer sufficiently powerful functionality to make the implementation of a larger application bearable and maybe even enjoyable. In reality, however, if your language has functions, you can accomplish a lot; Fortran got functions in 1958 and since then most languages have had them.
Yes, generic programming is nice in C++. A real programmable language like Common Lisp would be preferable of course. Any other modern programming language will surely have some other feature which was added because it is potentially nice and potentially justifies the existence of the language.
But in reality, the hard part is getting your data structures right. Getting your algorithms right. Knowing what you're trying to build and then building exactly that, nothing more and nothing less.
If we are honest, most languages would work. However, C++ is a nice compromise: it has some generic programming, the STL is incredibly useful, it offers basic OO concepts, and RAII (and structured error handling).
If we look at the criteria here, there really aren't that many candidate languages to choose from, even if we compromise a bit here and there. Therefore, the question really isn't "why" we would write a web service in C++, the question really is "why wouldn't we" write a web service in C++. Realistically, what else would you use, given the scope of what we're solving here?
Versatility
Performance matters. Don't let anyone tell you otherwise. Anyone who says that "memory is cheap" and uses that as an excuse should not be building your large-scale storage systems (or application servers or anything else that does interesting work on large amounts of data).
Donald Knuth said, "Premature optimization is the root of all evil" and I absolutely believe that. However, "no optimization and elastic scaling is the root of all public cloud revenue" is probably also true. Don't go to extremes – don't put yourself in a situation where you cannot, at the appropriate time, optimize your solution to be frugal with its resource use. When your solution is "elastically scaling" for you in some public cloud on a credit card subscription, it is very hard to go back and fix your unit economics. Chances are you never will.
The typical computer configuration for a storage server in Keepit is 168 18 TB hard drives attached to a single-socket 32-core 3.4GHz 64-bit processor and 1TiB of RAM. It's really important to note here that we use only one TiB of RAM for three PiB of raw disk: this is a 3000:1 ratio - it is not uncommon to see general purpose storage systems recommend a 30:1 ratio of disk to RAM (which would require us to run with 100TiB of RAM at which point memory most certainly isn't cheap anymore). Through the magic of our storage software, this gives us about 2PiB of customer-usable storage in only 11U of rack space. This means we can provide a total of 8PiB of usable storage in a single 44U rack of systems, consuming less than 10kW of power. This matters.
If you run a business, you want to be able to make a profit. Your customers will want you to make a profit, especially if they bet on you having their data 100 years from now. If you want to grow your business with investments, your investors will think this matters. In Keepit, we have amazing unit economics – we got the largest series A round of investment for an IT company in the history of Denmark ever - and part of the reason for that was because of our unit economics. Basically, our storage technology, not least the implementation of it, enabled this.
The choice of C++ has allowed us to implement a CPU- and memory-efficient storage system reliably that uses the available hardware resources to their fullest extent. This ranges from careful layout of data structures in memory to an efficient HTTP stack that exposes the functionality and moves more than a GiB of data per second per server over a friendly RESTful HTTP API on the network. C++ enables and supports every layer of this software, and that is quite a feat.
Let me briefly digress with another note on versatility. I have this personal hobby project where I am developing a lab power supply for my basement lab (because every basement needs a lab). In order to adjust current and voltage limits, I want to use rotary encoders rather than potentiometers.
A rotary encoder is basically an axle that activates two small switches in a specific sequence and by looking at the sequence you can detect if the user is turning the axle in one direction or the other. The encoder signal gets fed to a 1MHz 8-bit processor with 1 kB of RAM and 8 kB of flash for my code.
To implement the code that detects the turning of these encoders, it makes sense to use a textbook, object-oriented approach. Create a class for an encoder. Define a couple of methods for reading the switches and for reading out the final turn data. Declare a bit of local state. Beautifully encapsulated in pure OO style. The main logic can then instantiate the two encoders and call the methods on these objects. I am implementing the software for this project in C++ as well – try to think about that for a moment: The same language that allows us to efficiently and fully utilize a 32-core 3.4GHz 64-bit processor with 1TiB of RAM and 3PiB of raw disk works "just as well" on a 1-core 1MHz 8-bit processor with 1kiB of RAM and 8kiB of flash storage - and the code looks basically the same.
There are not many languages that can stretch this wide and not show the slightest sign of being close to its limit. This is truly something to behold.
The rest of the stack
The storage service exposes a simple RESTful API over HTTP using an HTTP stack we implemented from scratch in C++. Instantiating a web server in C++ is a single line of code – processing requests is as trivial as one could wish for.
I've heard plenty of arguments that doing HTTP or XML or other 'web' technology work would be simpler in Java or C# or other newer languages, but really, if you write your code well, why would this be difficult? Why would you spend more than a line of code to instantiate a web server? Why would parsing an XML document be difficult?
For XML, we implemented a validating parser using C++ metaprogramming; I have to be honest and say this was not fun all the way through and I couldn't sit down and write another today without reading up on this significantly first. C++ metaprogramming is nothing like a proper macro system – but it can absolutely solve a lot of problems, including giving us an RNC-like schema syntax for declaring a validating XML parser and generating efficient code for exactly that parser.
This also means when we parse an XML document and we declare that one of the elements is an integer, then either it parses an integer successfully or it throws. If we declare a string, we get the string properly decoded so that we always work on the native data – we cannot ever forget to validate a value and we cannot ever forget to escape or un-escape data. By creating a proper XML parser using the language well, we have not only made our life simpler, we have also made it safer.
The entire software ecosystem at Keepit may revolve around our storage systems, but we have several other supporting systems that use our shared components for the HTTP and XML stack.
One other notable C++ system is our search engine. Like so many other companies, we found ourselves needing a search engine to assist us with providing an amazing end user experience when browsing their datasets. And like so many others we fired up a cluster of Elasticsearch servers and went to work.
Very quickly we got hit by this basic fact that Elastic is great at queries and not very good at updates – and we have many more updates than we have queries. We simply couldn't get this to scale like we're used to. What to do?
While struggling with Elastic, we started the "Plan-B" project to create a simple search engine from scratch – this engine has been our only search engine for years now and to this day, the process is still called 'bsearch.'
Our search engine offers a google-like matching so that you can find your documents even if you misspell them, and it is a piece of technology that we are quite actively developing both to improve matching capabilities across languages and to allow for more efficient processing of much larger datasets, which will open up for other uses in the future.
Of our backend code base, about 81% of our code is C++. Another 16% is Common Lisp. The remaining 3% is Java.
We use Common Lisp in two major areas: For "general purpose" business functions such as messaging, resource accounting, billing, statistical data processing, etc. And we use it for backup dataset processing. These are two very different uses.
The first is a more classical application of the language where performance is maybe less of a concern but where the unparalleled power of the language allows for beautiful implementations of otherwise tedious programs.
The second use is a less traditional use case where enormous datasets are processed and where the majority of the memory is actually allocated and managed outside of the garbage collector – it is truly a high-performance Lisp system where we benefit from the power of the language to do interesting and efficient extractions of certain key data from the hundreds of petabytes of customer data that pass through our systems.
Many people don't know Common Lisp and may propose that "Surely nobody would write a web service in Common Lisp." Well, as with all other languages you need to understand the language to offer useful criticism; and the really groundbreaking feature of Common Lisp is its macro system. It is what makes Common Lisp by far the most powerful language in existence by a large margin.
This is nothing like C pre-processor macros; the Common Lisp macro system allows you to use the full power of the language to generate code for the compiler. Effectively, this means the language is fully programmable. This is not something that is simple to understand since there is no meaningful way to do this using C-like language syntax, which is also why the Lisp dialects have a syntax that is fundamentally different from other languages.
In other words, if you do not understand the Lisp syntax, you are not equipped to comprehend what the macro system allows. This is not simple to wrap your head around, but, for example, I can mention that Common Lisp was the first general purpose programming language to get Object Orientation added to it, and this was done not with a change to the language and the compiler, but with a library that contained some macros. Imagine that.
Fortran allows you to implicitly declare the type of variables by using certain letters in the first character of the variable name – just for fun, I implemented that with a macro for Common Lisp. If I wanted to do that with C or C++ or any other language, I would need to extend the compiler.
The idea of using the first character in the name of the variable to implicitly declare its type is of course ridiculous, but there are many little syntactical shortcuts or constructs that can help you in daily life that you may wish was present in your language of choice which you can only hope the language steering committee may one day add to the standard.
With Common Lisp, this is everyday stuff – no need to wait. If you want a new type of control structure or declaration mechanism, just go ahead and build it. The power of this cannot be overstated. C++ metaprogramming (and go generics and everything else) pales in comparison, useful as it is.
Lessons learned
First of all, it really sucks to have multiple languages; you can't expect everyone to be an expert in all, so by having more than one language, you decimate the effective size of your team. However, we picked Common Lisp to replace a sprawling forest of little scripts done in more languages than I could shake a stick at—meaning we are fortunate to have only two languages on our backend.
C++ and Common Lisp are so different that they complement each other well. Yes, we could have done everything in C++, but there are problems we solve in Common Lisp which would have been much less enjoyable to solve in C++. Now on the downside, we have two HTTP stacks, two XML stacks, two database libraries, two connection pools, and so on and so forth. There is no simple perfect solution here; the compromise we have arrived at is indeed working out very well for us.
We've been told many times that recruiting for C++ is hard because recruiting for "web technologies" is so much simpler. Well guess what, finding good JavaScript developers is just as hard as finding good C++ developers in my experience. With Common Lisp it's different again: it's harder to find people, but the percentage of the candidates that are actually qualified is higher, so all in all, it's actually fine. Recruitment is difficult across languages, period.
The best you can do is go to a conference, talk about your tech, and hope that some developers show up at your booth to talk about employment.
Old grumpy man’s advice for youngsters considering a career in software engineering
First of all, seriously consider a computer science education. There exist amazingly qualified people who do not have this and some of them work for us, but in my experience most really good developers have this. It certainly helps to get a foundation of mathematics, logic, and basic computer science. Knowing why things work will make learning new things infinitely simpler.
Learn multiple, properly different programming languages and write actual code in them. You need to experience (by failing) how functions are useful as abstractions and how terrible it is to work with ill-designed abstractions. You need to fail and spend serious time failing.
Make sure one of those languages is a compiled language with little or no runtime: C, C++, Rust, or even Fortran for that matter (not sure Fortran has much long-term perspective left in it though - it's probably time to say goodbye). Now challenge yourself to write the most efficient implementation of some simple problem – maybe a matrix multiplication for example.
Disassemble the code and look at it. At least get some understanding of the processor instructions and why they are generated from the code you wrote. Learn how cache lines matter. Time your code and find out why your solution isn't faster than it is. Then make it faster until you can prove to yourself that your instructions pipeline as much as they can, your cache misses are minimal, you don't wait on register write delays and so on and so forth.
Also, make sure that one of those languages is Common Lisp. It should be a criminal offence for a university to not teach Common Lisp in their computer science curriculum. Read "The Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs - SICP" too. Even if you will never use Lisp again, knowing it will make you a better developer in any other language.
And finally, as much as I dislike JavaScript, you should learn that, too. The most beautiful backend code will too easily be ignored if you cannot beautifully present its results – and today this means doing something with JavaScript.
Aside from my previous criticisms, you can make working with JavaScript more bearable, for example, by creating your own framework rather than relying on the constantly changing megabyte sized atrocities that your common web projects rely on. However, this is probably a topic for future discussion.

------------------------------------------------------------

Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/blog/will-the-recycle-bin-protect-my-azure-ad-data/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-08-20T00:50:19+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-07-21

============================================================

Will the recycle bin protect my Entra ID (Azure AD) data?
VideoAug. 17, 2023By Paul Robichaux
Can my Azure AD data be safeguarded by the recycle bin?
The answer is a resounding no. This is primarily due to two key reasons:
- Not all objects within Azure AD are covered by a recycle bin. This limitation extends to crucial components such as Conditional Access and Intune policies.
- Even in cases where a recycle bin is available, it's important to note that the retention periods and expiration dates for recoverable items differ significantly. Some are retained for as short as 14 days, while others are preserved for up to 2 months. Eventually, there comes a point where retrieval becomes impossible.
Paul Robichaux, a Microsoft MVP and Senior Director of Product at Keepit, stresses the inadequacy of relying on the recycle bin as a comprehensive strategy.
The Solution? Opt for Keepit's Backup and Recovery for Azure AD, providing unlimited and indefinite storage for your crucial data.
For further information on Keepit's backup and recovery for Entra ID (Azure AD), visit our service page.

------------------------------------------------------------
