Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/services/backup-azure-devops/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2026-08-12T18:07:58+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-08-16

============================================================

Protect Boards including work items, boards, backlogs, sprints, queries, delivery plans, and pipelines. Restore items with full metadata, including comments, custom fields, and attachments.
Protect against day-to-day data loss
Rapid recovery of “oops” deletions or changes. Instantly reset pipelines to known-good state to recover from mistakes or side effects.
Strengthen security and compliance
Long term immutable escrow copy of sensitive Azure DevOps data and compliance with various data protection regulations.
Top benefits
Secure your data
With Keepit’s independent, purpose-built cloud and unique storage architecture and security, your data is immutable.
Recover in minutes
Fast smart search allows you to easily find any data or user across all your services/apps and quickly recover it e.g., in place, or share it.
Comprehensive coverage
Protect all key workloads with the most complete and granular coverage available. Our protection is described as “Top-tier” by Forrester.
Azure DevOps Pipelines are the backbone of CI/CD (continuous integration and continuous development/deployment). Keepit protects these critical automations with “last known-good” point-in-time restores and change identification that help you quickly roll back your pipelines to a good state and keep your DevOps on track.
Boards protection
Azure DevOps Boards plays a pivotal role in project management and enables teams to drive both effectiveness and efficiency through collaboration, optimization, and visualization. Ensuring Boards data is never lost or inaccessible is key to minimizing risk of disruption. Keepit’s backup includes work items, boards, backlogs, team sprints, queries, and delivery plans.
The all-inclusive Keepit platform
What's included:
User
End-to-end infrastructure management
Data traffic: No egress, ingress, or transaction fees
Storage (immutable backup and retention)
Installation (100% cloud based: no hardware, no upgrades)
Maintenance, support, and updates
Automatic backups
Security: Immutability, ransomware prevention with entire snapshot restore
Get your Azure DevOps data back in minutesGranular and fast restoreEasy and fast searchSimple setup, low maintenanceStreamline data governanceDedicated independent cloud
Get your Azure DevOps data back in minutes
Keepit’s comprehensive protection and fast recovery for your Azure DevOps Boards and Pipelines data and metadata. Our granular protection delivers fast recovery to minimize disruption to mission-critical activities.
Granular and fast restore
Our Restore Capabilities Include:â¯â¯
In-Place Restore
Instantly get data back to where it originally residedâ¯â¯
In-Place Archives
In-place archives of your Public Folder contentâ¯â¯
Cross-User Restore
Easily migrate content from one user into anotherâ¯â¯
Download
Examine the data before a restoreâ¯â¯
Shareable Links
Provide users with a secure link to their dataâ¯â¯
Easy and fast search
Fast search
Fast federated search lets you search across all backup data so you can find what you need quickly.
Smart search
Controllable smart search allows partial or even misspelled search terms to provide results.
Deleted items view
If you’re not sure what was lost, activating the Deleted Items View takes the guesswork out of finding lost data. You can view all data that ever existed and was backed up on a tenant.
Simple setup, low maintenance
Get started in few minutes
Get started and configure your first backup in just a few minutes. Once deployed, it's a set-and-forget backup solution that runs reliantly in the background, so you can focus on other tasks.
Intuitive user interface
The user interface is simple, intuitive, and easy to use. No training is needed, saving you time and skilled technical resources.
API only
You can integrate Keepit with your existing systems thanks to our API-only approach.
Streamline data governance
Audit Logs. Track any user activity inside the Keepit platform, allowing you to monitor, review, and investigate any potential breaches.
Job Monitor. Detect abnormalities in the job monitor and discover changes on a snapshot basis as well as the number of changes made.
Data Sovereignty. Keepit operates its own data centers in multiple regions globally, helping you meet sovereignty requirements.
The Right to be Forgotten. Stay fully compliant with GDPR by preventing data from being previewed, downloaded, and restored to your production database.
Security Controls. Manage who has access to data and what permissions they have with granular Role Based Access Controls (RBAC) and ensure strong authentication with MFA and SSO.
Dedicated independent cloud
Most alternative cloud backup solutions store your backed-up data on the same public cloud infrastructure that hosts your primary data, which potentially exposes your company to several risks.
With Keepit, your company’s backup data is stored on an independent cloud infrastructure in two mirrored data centers in the data center region of your choice, ensuring data availability and sovereignty.
Building our own independent cloud allows Keepit to manage supply chain risks and provides tremendous control over costs, which enables us to offer unlimited hot storage and predictable “all-in” pricing.
Emmi selects Keepit, names the solution a ‘scalable and future-proof’ choice
"Overall, Keepit contributes significantly to Emmi's risk management goals by providing a reliable and scalable backup solution that secures business operations."
With Keepit, data is stored in our vendor-neutral cloud instead of public platforms like AWS, making Keepit a true third-party backup.
Vendor-independent cloud
Mirrored infrastructure
In line with the 3-2-1 backup rule and NIST framework
Instant recovery
Find what you need quickly and restore individual records or entire application datasets in a few clicks.
Fast, easy, and granular restore
Rapid search and eDiscovery
Preview files securely
Secure file sharing
Recover data intelligently
Top-tier coverage
Leading security
Prevent attackers from manipulating your backups and minimize the risk of data breach with reliable security.
Certified, cloud-native design
Resilient and immutable
Always-on compliance
Protect data in transit and at rest
Configure retention policies
Control access rights
Monitor data to detect anomalies
Cost effectiveness
Never worry about overage costs or hidden surprises with simple and predictable pricing that saves you money.
Easy to budget
Software and admin savings
Drop unnecessary licensing costs
Upgrades and maintenance included
No hidden costs
Revolutionary storage efficiency
Scale with ease
Outstanding simplicity
Minimize deployment efforts
and significantly reduce admin time with a simple platform made to improve efficiencies.
Truly simple and intuitive
Less effort, more efficiency
Easy deployment
Set and forget
Reduce admin time
Quick and responsive support
Frequently asked questions
Where is Azure DevOps backup data stored?
Your data will be securely stored in Keepit’s independent cloud. We run our own data center regions, operate on our own hardware, and our own people manage the infrastructure.
To ensure data sovereignty, we have six data center regions in:
Americas: Washington D.C., USA and Toronto, Canada
Europe: London, United Kingdom
EU: Copenhagen, Denmark and Frankfurt, Germany,
Asia: Sydney, Australia
Once a customer chooses a Keepit region for backup, their data never leaves that region. Not only does Keepit guarantee that backup data will always go to that region, but no processes exist that could even transfer backup data out of that region (aside from customer-initiated restores and downloads, of course). Should systems in a region ever need to be moved out of that jurisdiction, then Keepit will negotiate the moves with all affected customers prior to execution.
What is the price?
It depends on the Service Offering you choose. See more on our pricing page.
Are you ISO27001, PCI, AICPA SOC, and ISAE3402 certified?
Yes, to all the above.
Further, uniquely to Keepit, our staff and software development are also ISO27001 certified — not just our data centers as most vendors. Read more.
Are you GDPR compliant?
We are GDRP compliant, and our HQ is located in Denmark, EU. Read more.
How often do you back up data?
Twice daily. We have found trying more often doesn’t give our customers more successful or complete backups due to Microsoft throttling limitations.
Get started today
Experience the benefits and security of intelligent SaaS data protection.
