Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/entra-id-demo/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-06-02T21:11:45+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-08-09

============================================================

You’re backing up your Microsoft 365 data because you know it’s vital to your organization. But what about Entra ID? If Entra ID isn’t available, your users can’t work in Microsoft 365.
Identity systems are #1 for any business
Microsoft ranks protecting identity systems as more important than protecting human life as it ensures you and your users can maintain access to critical applications such as Entra ID.
You’re responsible for your data
Microsoft doesn’t guarantee complete and fast recovery of deleted or corrupted files. It’s up to you to follow recoverability best practices to ensure uninterrupted access to your data.
Minimize breaches and non-compliance with our simplified compliance features. Custom retention policies mean you never worry about data recovery again.
Productivity and recovery
Save time, increase efficiency with quick and granular recovery features. Easy UI means no training: Restore operations to Entra ID faster than ever before.
Data resiliency
Back up your data separate from Microsoft’s environment to eliminate single points of failure. Ensure business continuity and store your data securely.
Security Today's 2023 CyberSecured Awards recognize Keepit's Backup and Recovery for Entra ID (formerly Azure AD) as the best product for data loss prevention and disaster recovery/business continuity.
A simple, yet powerful service to help you take control and safeguard your Entra ID (formerly Azure AD) infrastructure from accidental deletions, ransomware, and other potentially devastating outages.
Dedicated independent cloudÂ Fast and granular recoveryEasy setup, low maintenanceStreamline data governanceMonitor backups with dashboardsRestore in bulk
Dedicated independent cloud
Most alternative cloud backup solutions store your backed-up data on the same public cloud infrastructure that hosts your primary data, which potentially exposes your company to several risks.
With Keepit, your company’s backup data is stored on an independent cloud infrastructure in two mirrored data centers in the data center region of your choice, ensuring data availability and sovereignty.
Building our own independent cloud allows Keepit to manage supply chain risks and provides tremendous control over costs, which enables us to offer unlimited hot storage and predictable “all-in” pricing.
Fast and granular recovery
Recover your data from a single item all the way up to the tenant level for precision recovery at scale.
In-place restore
Get data back to where it originally resided
Restore in bulk
Recover Entra ID metadata in bulk
Restore subobjects
Recreate missing subobjects together with the object you are restoring
Download
Download individual data objects or complete folders
Sharable Links
Provide users with a secure link to their data
Easy setup, low maintenance
Get started in few minutes
Get started and configure your first backup in just a few minutes. Once deployed, it is a set-and-forget backup solution that runs reliantly in the background, so you can focus on other tasks.
Intuitive user interface
The user interface is simple, intuitive, and easy to use. No training is needed, saving you time and skilled technical resources.
API-only
You can integrate Keepit with your existing systems thanks to our API-only approach.
Streamline data governance
Audit Logs. Track any user activity inside the Keepit platform, allowing you to monitor, review, and investigate any potential breaches.
Job Monitor. Detect abnormalities in the job monitor and discover changes on a snapshot basis as well as the number of changes made.
Data sovereignty. Keepit operates its own data centers in multiple regions globally, helping you meet sovereignty requirements.
The Right to be Forgotten. Stay fully compliant with GDPR by preventing data from being previewed, downloaded, and restored to your production database.
Security Controls. Manage who has access to data and what permissions they have with granular Role Based Access Controls (RBAC) and ensure strong authentication with MFA and SSO.
Monitor backups with dashboards
Stay in control and monitor your backup and recovery activities on one single page:
Get detailed status messages of your connector and information to help you informed and react quickly.
Track backup progress in real time.
Monitor and understand all recovery jobs, statistics, and analytics in one simple overview.
Restore in bulk
Restore anything that has been deleted. Easily recover multiple Entra ID object properties at the same time within the Keepit platform in only a few clicks.
Preview program
Keepit Rapid Recovery for Microsoft 365
Are you curious about the new Microsoft 365 Backup Storage? Do you want early access and a chance to give feedback on Keepit Rapid Recovery for Microsoft 365?
With Keepit, data is stored in our vendor-neutral cloud instead of public platforms like AWS, making Keepit a true third-party backup.
Vendor-independent cloud
Mirrored infrastructure
In line with the 3-2-1 backup rule and NIST framework
Instant recovery
Find what you need quickly and restore individual records or entire application datasets in a few clicks.
Fast, easy, and granular restore
Rapid search and eDiscovery
Preview files securely
Secure file sharing
Recover data intelligently
Top-tier coverage
Leading security
Prevent attackers from manipulating your backups and minimize the risk of data breach with reliable security.
Certified, cloud-native design
Resilient and immutable
Always-on compliance
Protect data in transit and at rest
Configure retention policies
Control access rights
Monitor data to detect anomalies
Cost effectiveness
Never worry about overage costs or hidden surprises with simple and predictable pricing that saves you money.
Easy to budget
Software and admin savings
Drop unnecessary licensing costs
Upgrades and maintenance included
No hidden costs
Revolutionary storage efficiency
Scale with ease
Outstanding simplicity
Minimize deployment efforts
and significantly reduce admin time with a simple platform made to improve efficiencies.
Truly simple and intuitive
Less effort, more efficiency
Easy deployment
Set and forget
Reduce admin time
Quick and responsive support
"Keepit has the expertise to support any enterprise with their journey to the cloud, viable, safe storage of essential cloud SaaS data."
Jeffrey Chen
Senior Global Microsoft Infrastructure Specialist, SIG
"If you don't have third-party backup and Microsoft cannot restore your data, you're just out of luck. We went with Keepit to ensure both consistent backup and long-term retention of our data."
Ken Schirrmacher
Sr. Director of IT/Interim CIO,
Park’N Fly
Frequently asked questions
How does the Entra ID configuration work?
Once the connector is set up, you can configure the following items:
Change the name of the connector
Configure the backup of activity logs
Manage user access to the connector
Configure the retention period
Where will my data be stored?
Your data will be securely stored in Keepit’s independent cloud. We run our own data center regions, operate on our own hardware, and our own people manage the infrastructure.
To ensure data sovereignty, we have six data center regions in:
Americas: Washington D.C., USA & Toronto, Canada
Europe: London, United Kingdom
EU: Copenhagen, Denmark & Frankfurt, Germany,
Asia: Sydney, Australia
Once a customer chooses a Keepit region for backup, their data never leaves that region. Not only does Keepit guarantee that backup data will always go to that region, but no processes exist that could even transfer backup data out of that region (aside from customer-initiated restores and downloads, of course). Should systems in a region ever need to be moved out of that jurisdiction, Keepit will negotiate the moves with all affected customers prior to execution.
How long are my backups kept?
With Keepit for Entra ID Advanced Business Essentials Service Offering, your data is kept for 12 months.
With Keepit for Entra ID Advanced Enterprise Unlimited Service Offering, you will have unlimited retention.
With Keepit for Entra ID Advanced Government Plus Service Offering, you will have unlimited retention.
Yes, and we have our headquarters in Denmark, EU. Read more.
Can I use Entra ID backup along with my other Keepit services?
Yes, you can combine Entra ID backup with backup of Microsoft 365, Salesforce, Dynamics, Zendesk, PowerBI, and any other Keepit services for full protection of all your cloud data. Request a demo and our Sales team will get in touch with you.
Get started
Take the next step toward protecting your SaaS data
