Source URL: https://www.keepit.com/m365-demo/
Content type: Web page
Last modified: 2025-06-06T00:32:40+02:00
Retrieved: 2026-08-02

============================================================

Mistakes happen every day. Your users and administrators have access to your most vital data, and one accidental deletion means losing the critical data you rely on the most. A reliableMicrosoft 365 backup helps you recover quickly from human error.
Security threats
Data loss from security breaches, such as ransomware and malicious deletion, will lead you to lose access to your data. Without a Microsoft 365backup in place, your SaaS data can be lost forever.
Access is key to compliance
To comply, you need uninterrupted access to your data, and any data loss or disruption, such as Microsoft service outages, may lead to failures to comply. With Keepit, it’s easy.
—forming a strong foundation for a trustedMicrosoft 365 cloud backup strategy.
Recover in minutes
Fast smart search allows you to easily find any data or user across all your services/apps and quickly recover it e.g., in place, share it, or PST download—making Microsoft 365 backup fast and efficient.
Full coverage
Protect all key workloads with the most complete and granular coverage available. Our protection is described as “Top-tier” by Forrester.
Get your Microsoft 365 data back in minutesDedicated independent cloudÂ Easy and fast searchDedicated storage architectureEasy setup, low maintenanceStreamline data governance
Get your Microsoft 365 data back in minutes
Specifically designed for admins, Keepit makes manual restore processes a thing of the past when managing backup Microsoft 365 environments.
With ultra-fast smart search and restore features, you can restore multiple terabytes a day and get your M365 data back into its original location along with the original file structure and metadata.
Dedicated independent cloud
Most alternative cloud backup solutions store your backed-up data on the same public cloud infrastructure that hosts your primary data, which potentially exposes your company to several risks.
With Keepit, your company’s backup data is stored on an independent cloud infrastructure in two mirrored data centers in the data center region of your choice, ensuring data availability and sovereignty.
Building our own independent cloud allows Keepit to manage supply chain risks and provides tremendous control over costs, which enables us to offer unlimited hot storage and predictable “all-in” pricing.
Easy and fast search
Fast search
Fast federated search lets you search across all backup data so you can find what you need quickly.
Smart search
Controllable smart search allows partial or even misspelled search terms to provide results.
Deleted items view
If you’re not sure what was lost, activating the Deleted Items View takes the guesswork out of finding lost data. You can view all data that ever existed and was backed up on a tenant.
Dedicated storage architecture
The Keepit infrastructure runs on software that was designed and built from the ground up by our team.
Blockchain-like Merkle tree structure
We created a uniquely powerful architecture that employs a blockchain-like Merkle tree structure that allows you to store data in an immutable format to prevent attackers from manipulating your backups so you can recover quickly with uncompromised backups.
"Incremental forever"
The architecture also employs an innovative “incremental forever” approach that delivers performance and cost benefits such as unlimited hot storage, no data tiering, unlimited archiving, and no snapshot expiration. These benefits would simply not be possible to provide on general-purpose storage services.
Easy setup, low maintenance
Get started in few minutes
Get started and configure your first backup in just a few minutes. Once deployed, it is a set-and-forget backup solution that runs reliantly in the background, so you can focus on other tasks.
Intuitive user interface
The user interface is simple, intuitive, and easy to use. No training is needed, saving you time and skilled technical resources.
API only
You can integrate Keepit with your existing systems thanks to our API-only approach.
Streamline data governance
Audit Logs. Track any user activity inside the Keepit platform, allowing you to monitor, review, and investigate any potential breaches.
Job Monitor. Detect abnormalities in the job monitor and discover changes on a snapshot basis as well as the number of changes made.
Data sovereignty. Keepit operates its own data centers in multiple regions globally, helping you meet sovereignty requirements.
The Right to be Forgotten. Stay fully compliant with GDPR by preventing data from being previewed, downloaded, and restored to your production database.
Security controls. Manage who has access to data and what permissions they have with granular Role Based Access Controls (RBAC) and ensure strong authentication with MFA and SSO.
Why companies globally trust us
Business continuity
With Keepit, data is stored in our vendor-neutral cloud instead of public platforms like AWS, making Keepit a true third-party backup.
Vendor-independent cloud
Mirrored infrastructure
In line with the 3-2-1 backup rule and NIST framework
Instant recovery
Find what you need quickly and restore individual records or entire application datasets in a few clicks.
Fast, easy, and granular restore
Rapid search and eDiscovery
Preview files securely
Secure file sharing
Recover data intelligently
Top-tier coverage
Leading security
Prevent attackers from manipulating your backups and minimize the risk of data breach with reliable security.
Certified, cloud-native design
Resilient and immutable
Always-on compliance
Protect data in transit and at rest
Configure retention policies
Control access rights
Monitor data to detect anomalies
Cost effectiveness
Never worry about overage costs or hidden surprises with simple and predictable pricing that saves you money.
Easy to budget
Software and admin savings
Drop unnecessary licensing costs
Upgrades and maintenance included
No hidden costs
Revolutionary storage efficiency
Scale with ease
Outstanding simplicity
Minimize deployment efforts
and significantly reduce admin time with a simple platform made to improve efficiencies.
Truly simple and intuitive
Less effort, more efficiency
Easy deployment
Set and forget
Reduce admin time
Quick and responsive support
“We needed an easy and cost-efficient setup that was secure, GDPR compliant, and which provided 100% uptime. That’s why we chose Keepit.”
Nenad Ljubetic Head of IT, TALKE Group Germany
Frequently asked questions
Where will our data be stored?
Always within the data center region you specify. Currently we have six data center regions: EU-DK, EU-DE, UKI, US, CA and APAC.
Why back up Microsoft 365 data?
As per Microsoft's responsibility model, the customer is responsible for keeping a backup of the data, not the cloud service provider. Read more
